0x API
0xplain
1inch
双因素验证（2FA）
3Box Labs
51%攻击
51%攻击 | 定义：某个矿工或组织能控制网络上超过50%的挖矿哈希率或算力时可能会发生的攻击。
Aave
Absolute Advantage
An economics concept in which one party has a direct advantage in efficiency in producing/providing a specific good or service over another party.
账户
ACH 转账
Active Management
An investing strategy employed by fund managers aiming to outperform an index or market in order to generate profits.
主动验证服务 (AVS)
主动验证服务 (AVS) 持续监控和验证，以增强区块链与加密货币的安全性、性能与合规性。
Ad Hoc
The phrase 'ad hoc' is a phrase of Latin origin that is used in modern English to mean 'for this purpose' or 'specifically for this.'
链上地址
String of text that designates the location of a particular wallet on the blockchain. Often a hashed version of a public key.
聚合器
Agoric
气隙隔离
空投
Distribution of digital assets to the public, by virtue of holding a certain token or by virtue of being an active wallet address.
AirGap Vault
AirSwap
算法
算法 | 定义：用于解决问题的一系列明确指令。
All or None Order (AON)
An AON order, once placed, must either be filled in its entirety or not at all. This prevents any partial filling of orders.
All-Time High (ATH)
The highest price of a cryptocurrency in a quote​ currency, such as a dollar, BTC, ETH, or BNB
Allocation
Percentage distribution of tokens. For example a project may allocate 40% of tokens to their team.
Alpha
The first look at a product released by a team, consisting of the very first version of a primitive, basic software or product.
山寨币
A cryptocurrency that is alternative to Bitcoin. Altcoin is used to describe cryptocurrencies that are not Bitcoin.
反洗钱
Angel Investor
Wealthy investors that seek out opportunities to provide funding for entrepreneurs or start-up companies.
反洗钱 (AML)
反洗钱 | 定义：为尽量减少和遏制非法或可疑活动所产生的资金流动而采取的法律和监管程序。
API
应用链
Apple Pay
Application Programming Interface (API)
Collection of functions and procedures that allow users to interact with the data of an application.
Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC)
An Integrated Circuit customized for maximum performance in a particular use.
套利交易
套利 | 定义：在不同市场上买卖资产，利用同一资产的价格差异获利。
Arbitrum
ARC-20
本文将为您介绍比特币区块链上同质化代币的代币标准 Atomicals ARC-20 代币，探索其运作方式及其潜在用例。
人工智能(AI)
探索人工智能(AI)在医疗保健、商业、教育、金融、安全、制造和运输领域的变革力量。
ASIC（专用集成电路）
ASIC-resistant
The property of a cryptocurrency that is “immune” to ASIC mining. Allowing the mining to become more decentralized.
Ask Price
The lowest price a seller would be willing to accept when placing their sell order while trading an asset on an exchange.
Asset Management
A system or method that helps individuals or companies manage assets. Either on behalf of their clients or their own.
资产来源
资产管理规模(AUM)
资产管理规模(AUM)是实体代表客户管理金融资产的市值，即其影响力和运营规模。
Asynchronous
Events in electronic systems that do not happen at the same time or speed, or happen independent of the main program flow.
Atomic Swap
A technique of peer-to-peer cryptocurrency trading based on smart contract technology that removes the need for intermediaries.
Attack surface
Points in a software environment where an attacker can attempt to enter or extract data from the system.
见证
Auction
A live event where assets or services are negotiated through a bidding process, which is often led by an auctioneer.
Aurora
自动做市商(AMM)
自动做市商(AMM)是去中心化交易平台(DEX)协议的一部分，可供用户在无需中间机构参与的情况下交易数字资产。
Avalanche
AVAX
Axie Infinity
B-Token
“B-Token”这个名称指代由币安铸造的一系列完全抵押的包装代币。
Bags
The portfolio of coins and tokens one is holding. Often related to a poorly performing bag of assets that investors insist to hold.
Banxa
信标链
信标链 | 定义：信标链是以太坊的权益证明(PoS)层，负责承载共识过程。
Bear Market
A negative trend in prices of a market. It is widely used not only in the cryptocurrency space but also in the traditional markets
Benchmark
A measurement standard which can be used to gauge the performance of a particular asset or investment portfolio
BEP-1155
BEP-1155 代币标准支持在 BNB Chain 上的单个智能合约中结合同质化代币和非同质化代币 (NFT)。
BEP-20
BEP-20是BNB Smart Chain上的一种代币标准，旨在拓展最常见的以太坊代币标准ERC-20。
BEP-721
BEP-721是一种允许创建非同质化代币(NFT)的BNB Smart Chain (BSC)代币标准。
BEP-95
BEP-95 | 定义：BEP-95是一项为BNB智能链引入实时销毁机制的币安改进提案。它旨在提高BNB代币经济学的活力和去中心化程度。
Besu
Beta (Coefficient)
A tool used to measure the volatility of an asset in comparison to the volatility of a specific portfolio or market index.
Beta (Release)
An early version of a program for users to test and for a team to get feedback. This stage comes after the Alpha stage.
Bid-Ask Spread
The difference in price between the lowest asking price and highest bid price on the order book for an asset.
This site can’t be reached
No definition found.
Binance
Blockchain Charity Foundation
The world's first decentralized charity platform to advocate the concept of 'blockchain for social good'.
Binance Ecosystem Fund (BEF)
An initiative by Binance to collaborate with partners who care about the blockchain/cryptocurrency ecosystem.
币安用户
“币安用户”一词是指积极参与加密货币交易平台币安或为其做出贡献的个人。
比特币
A cryptocurrency created by the pseudonymous developer(s) Satoshi Nakamoto, initially described as a 'Peer-to-Peer e-cash'.
Bitcoin Core
Leading implementation of the software that enables users to interact with the Bitcoin network. Initially released by Satoshi.
Bitcoin Dominance
The ratio of Bitcoin's market capitalization versus the sum of the market capitalizations of all cryptocurrencies.
唯比特币主义者
唯比特币主义者指认为比特币是唯一有价值的加密货币以及全球金融的未来的人。
Bitcoin Pizza
The first known transaction where Bitcoin was exchanged for a physical good. Laszlo Hanyecz paid 10,000 BTC for two pizzas.
Black Swan Event
An event that is often entirely unexpected and deviates from the expected result causing widespread ramifications.
区块
A computer file that stores transaction data. These can then be arranged in a linear sequence, which will form a blockchain.
区块浏览器
Online Blockchain webpage which allows users to browse information about blocks, transactions, balances and more.
Block header
A section in a block containing metadata and a summary of the block's transactions. This is the information hashed when mining.
区块高度
The number of blocks in the chain between itself and the first block on that blockchain (genesis block or block 0).
区块奖励
区块奖励 | 定义：区块链协议针对每个顺利挖出和验证的区块奖励给加密货币矿工的代币总和。
区块间隔
Blockaid
区块链
区块链 | 定义：一种去中心化数字账本，按时间顺序记录有关加密货币的交易信息。
区块链浏览器
区块链三难困境
Bloom Filter
A data structure which is able to be used to inform the user whether a particular item is part of a set of items
蓝筹代币
蓝筹加密货币是能久经考验的代币。这些资产已获公认且价值牢靠。
BNB
BNB | 定义：2017年7月3日结束的首次代币发行后推出的代币。BNB可供用户获得交易平台的交易手续费折扣等。
BNB Chain
BNSOL
BNSOL 是一种可交易代币，代表您在币安平台上质押的 SOL。它是一种流动性质押代币，可提供流动性并提高资金利用率。
Bollinger Bands
A technical analysis indicator that measures market volatility. It's made of two sidelong bands and a simple moving average.
债券
债券是一种固定收益投资，代表投资者向借款方（通常是企业或政府）提供的贷款。
赏金
A reward posted by a group or individual to incentivize certain work, behavior (such as referrals), or development.
脑钱包
Brave
BRC-20代币
BRC-20是一种实验性代币标准，支持通过比特币区块链上的序数协议来铸造和划转同质化代币。
Break-Even Point (BEP)
The point where the total costs of an operation is equivalent to its current value or revenue.
Breakeven Multiple
The multiple of the current price by which an asset needs to appreciate in order to reach its previous all-time high.
Breakout
When the price of an asset moves outside of a defined range or pattern, typically by breaking out of a support or resistance area.
跨链桥
BscScan
BscScan 是专为 BNB Smart Chain (BSC) 用户推出的区块链浏览器，由热门以太坊区块链浏览器 Etherscan 的开发团队打造。
BTC
BTC 钱包地址
BTC 钱包地址是由字母和数字组成的唯一字符串，用于发送和接收比特币交易。
BUIDL
Originally derived from HODL, a term referring to keeping your heads down and focusing on building your product.
Bull Market
A positive trend in prices of a market. It is widely used not only in the cryptocurrency space but also in the traditional markets
Burner 钱包介绍
本文将介绍一种临时加密货币钱包——Burner 钱包，用户可借助该钱包与可能存在风险的区块链应用程序安全交互。
Buy Wall
A single huge buy order or the composition of multiple large buy orders at the same price in the order book of a particular market.
字节码
拜占庭容错
拜占庭分叉
候选区块
候选区块 | 定义：由挖矿节点（矿工）创建的临时区块，添加至区块链以获得区块奖励。
Candlestick
A graph representation of price action that displays the open, close, high, and low points within a certain period.
Capitulation
A period of strong selling activity, where investors give up their positions and sell their holdings as quickly as possible.
Celo
Censorship-resistance
The property of a cryptocurrency network that prevents any entity from altering transactions on it.
Central Bank
A financial institution that acts as a monetary authority and manages a states currency, interest rates, and money supply.
中央银行数字货币(CBDC)
中央银行数字货币(CBDC)是由主权中央银行发行的受官方认可的数字货币，分为批发型CBDC和零售型CBDC。
Central Processing Unit (CPU)
The part of a computer responsible for interpreting instructions of computer programs and executing operations.
Centralized
When the planning and decision-making mechanisms are concentrated in a particular point within a system.
中心化交易所
了解以高流动性、高级交易工具和风险考虑而享有盛名的传统加密货币市场，即各大中心化交易平台。
CEX
链 ID
ChatGPT
ChatGPT是由OpenAI开发的语言处理模型，其问世标志着自然语言处理(NLP)领域的重大进展
Chrome
Cipher
A method for encrypting and decrypting messages. Ciphers can be divided into symmetric or asymmetric, according to their key model.
Circulating Supply
The best approximate number of cryptocurrency coins or tokens that are publicly available and circulating in the market.
客户端
Cloud
In computer science, a shared pool of resources, which are made available to multiple users through the Internet.
Codefi
代币
A cryptocurrency or digital cash that is independent of any other platform, which is used as exchange of value.
Coinbase Pay
CoinGecko
冷存储
探索冷存储的基础知识：了解冷存储的概念，学会如何保护持有加密货币的安全。
冷钱包 -- 冷存储
Collateral
Pledging something of value against a loan to guarantee that the person taking the loan will complete repayment.
Colocation
A dedicated space in a data center belonging to stock exchanges which is shared with other entities such as high-frequency traders.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)
US-based agency responsible for regulating derivatives, including options, swaps, and futures.
编译
Compound
复利
复利是指本金的累计利息加之此前各期的利息。
确认
确认时间
确认时间 | 定义：区块链交易得到批准并添加至账本所需的时间。
Confluence
When multiple investment methods, technical indicators, or trading signals are combined to form a more reliable strategy.
共识
共识算法
共识算法是一种机制，旨在帮助区块链网络中的不同计算机（即使在部分计算机不公平竞争的情况下）就事实达成一致。
共识层客户端
共识层
共识机制
Consensys
君士坦丁堡分叉
Consumer Price Index (CPI)
A Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a measure used to track the effects of inflation over a period of time.
期货溢价和现货溢价
期货溢价和现货溢价用于描述大宗商品的期货价格与其预期的未来现货价格之间的关系。它们是交易和对冲的实用指标。
合约
合约账户
CoolWallet
跟单交易
本文将为您介绍加密货币跟单交易的优势，以及如何进行跟单交易、管理风险、分散投资及通过币安学院促进共同学习。
交易对手风险
交易对手风险是指在金融交易中，一方违约或未能履行合同义务，从而给另一方造成财务损失的风险。
Credentials
Personal information. Examples include username, password, email address, qualifications and many more.
跨链桥
区块链桥连接不同的区块链网络，支持数字资产跨网络移动，促成了加密货币领域的互操作性。
加密-
加密资产
加密货币赏金
加密-合规
加密货币ETF
加密货币ETF能够让投资者在不直接持有或管理加密货币的情况下获得加密货币价格波动的敞口。
加密货币恐惧和贪婪指数
加密货币恐惧和贪婪指数工具采用若干指标来有效衡量加密货币的整体市场情绪，衡量分值范围为0到100。
加密货币基金
加密货币协议
加密货币协议是治理去中心化网络中行为的一系列规则和程序。
加密货币钱包
加密货币寒冬
加密货币寒冬 | 定义：“加密货币寒冬”一词指的是加密货币市场中较长的一个时间段。在此期间，货币价格下跌或停滞不前，市场被负面情绪主导。
CryptoCompare
加密货币
加密货币 | 定义：一种采用加密技术保护的数字货币，可用作点对点 (C2C) 经济体系中的交易媒介。
加密经济
加密学
密码学 | 定义：利用数学理论和计算加密和解密信息的科学。
Curve
托管
托管 | 定义：指代表客户持有资产。还可指某人资金或资产的所有权。
D'CENT
Daemon
A process operating in the background waiting for a specific event or condition in order to be activated.
DAI
Danksharding
Danksharding是全新的分片方式，在优化以太坊网络内数据管理和交易处理方面发挥着至关重要的作用。
DAO
dapp
DDoS攻击
Dead Cat Bounce
A brief recovery in the price of a declining asset that is shortly followed by a continuation of the downtrend.
死亡交叉
本文将探讨死亡交叉及其在预测市场下跌方面的作用，为您介绍其运作方式以及可与哪些指标配合使用，以获得更优市场信号。
去中心化
去中心化应用
DApp是运行在计算机的C2C网络上（而非集中式数据库中）的应用程序。用户可以使用加密货币钱包自由连接到各个DApp。
Decentralized Autonomous Cooperative (DAC)
An organization that is controlled by shareholders rather than a central authority.
去中心化自治组织
定义：一个硬编码规则系统，用于定义一个去中心化组织的行动准则。
去中心化交易所
An exchange which does not require users to deposit funds to start trading and does not hold the funds for the user.
去中心化金融
去中心化指数
去中心化指数是一种投资工具，用于追踪在去中心化交易平台上交易的多种加密货币或数字资产的表现。
去中心化网络
Decryption
The act of reverting an encryption process so that unreadable data (ciphertext) can be converted into readable data (plaintext).
Deep Web
The part of the web that is somehow hidden, i.e., not indexed by Google and other traditional web sarch engines.
去中心化金融
权益授权证明（DPoS）
Delisting
The removal of an asset from an exchange either as a request from the project team or as a decision made by the exchange.
面额
脱钩
本文将介绍脱钩的成因、影响及避免脱钩的预防措施，从而确保稳定币在加密货币市场中的可靠性和信任度。
保证金
经济萧条
了解经济萧条：探索其成因、影响及其在金融不稳定时期如何对加密货币市场造成影响。
衍生品
Design Flaw Attack
Smart contract, decentralized market, or other software created with intentional flaws to trick users interacting with them
开发者
Devcon
开发者
去中心化交易所
钻石手
钻石手 | 定义：钻石手指的是不论金融资产的波动性大小，都坚决持有不卖出的投资者。
难度
In cryptocurrency, difficulty indicates the difficulty required to mine a block. Learn more at Binance Academy.
难度炸弹
The term 'difficulty bomb' denotes the increase in mining difficulty in Ethereum, as part of its migration to Proof of Stake.
数字资产
数字身份
电子签名
这是一种验证数字数据真实性和完整性的加密工具，确保数据通信和加密货币交易的安全。
Diligence
直接市场接入 (DMA)
直接市场接入让投资者无需通过经纪商，可以直接在交易平台上下单交易，从而实现更快的交易执行速度、更高的自主权以及更低的交易费用。
分布式账本技术
Divergence
When the market price of an asset and a technical indicator (e.g. RSI, Volume, MACD) are heading in opposite directions.
Diversification
The allocation of funds across different types of assets and jurisdictions in order to reduce the overall risks.
DLT
Do Your Own Research (DYOR)
自己做好研究(DYOR) | 定义：一条宝贵的建议。明智的做法是自己亲自研究币种，而非单纯听信他人。
Dollar Cost Averaging (DCA)
Investing fixed dollar amounts over regular periods of time regardless of the price of the asset.
点图
探索点图在数据可视化中的强大功能，深入了解克利夫兰点图、威尔金森点图以及美联储利率点图。
双重支付
Double Spending
When a given amount of coins are spent more than once. Usually as a result of a race attack or a 51% attack.
Eclipse Attack
When peers on the network are malicious and monopolize the network in order to prevent specific nodes from communicating.
生态系统
以太坊企业联盟
Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH)
An economic theory stating financial markets reflect all available information on the price of assets at any time.
EigenLayer
本文将为您介绍EigenLayer，该协议引入了以太坊“再质押集合”的概念以实现去中心化信任，兼具安全性、创新性和灵活性。
EIP
EIP stands for Ethereum Improvement Proposal. It’s a way for the Ethereum community to suggest upgrades or new ideas for the blockchain.
Ethereum 改进提议（EIP）-1559
EIP-3074
立即了解 EIP-3074 如何通过增强交易的安全性和灵活性来变革以太坊，持续关注其与以太坊 Pectra 升级的集成事宜。
EIP-4844
EIP-4844（又称Proto-danksharding）是一项拟议的升级，旨在降低以太坊的手续费以及增加交易吞吐量。
EIP-7251
EIP-7251 aims to improve Ethereum’s scalability and efficiency by reducing the number of active validators while maintaining decentralization.
EIP-7702
了解 EIP-7702 提案如何为外部账户 (EOA) 添加智能合约功能，进一步优化以太坊。
弹性
本文将为您介绍弹性，这一概念用于衡量一个变量如何随另一个变量的变动而变动。阅读本文，您将了解弹性在交易和日常生活中的使用方式。
加密密钥
加密
Conversion of information or data into a secure code in order to prevent unauthorised access to the information or data.
内生变量
立即探索反映经济模型内部动态的内生变量，了解加密货币内生变量的一些示例。
ENS
熵
时段
Ethereum 征求修正意见书（ERC）
ERC-1155
了解功能多样的ERC-1155代币。游戏、数字收藏品和高效管理多种代币类型的理想之选。
ERC-20
A technical standard used to issue and implement tokens on the Ethereum blockchain proposed in November 2015 by Fabian Vogelsteller.
ERC-404
ERC-404是同质化与非同质化相融合的代币标准。了解该标准的独特功能、半同质化性质以及铸造并销毁机制等。
ERC-721
An Ethereum based non-fungible token. This means that each token is unique and as a result, not interchangeable.
交易所交易基金（ETF）
本文将探讨ETF的含义及其在加密货币市场中的作用，包括ETF对投资者与金融生态系统的好处、影响及挑战。
ETH
以太币
以太坊
以太坊 2.0
以太坊经典
以太坊经典(ETC)源于臭名昭著的以太坊硬分叉，而该分叉是由2016年DAO黑客攻击造成的。与以太坊(ETH)不同，ETC仍会使用工作量证明。
以太坊基金会
探索以太坊基金会在区块链发展中的作用。从研究到社区支持，了解它如何塑造去中心化技术的未来。
以太坊改进提议（EIP）
Ethereum Mainnet
以太坊域名服务
Ethereum 虚拟机
以太坊虚拟机(EVM)
以太坊虚拟机(EVM)是一种用于执行智能合约的图灵完备可编程机器，这些合约通常采用Solidity语言编码。
Etherscan
EUR
EVM
交易所
A marketplace for cryptocurrencies where users can buy and sell coins.
执行客户端
执行层
外生变量
立即探索有助于解释外部因素对经济模型影响的外生变量，了解外生变量在加密货币中的表现。
指数移动平均线 (EMA)
指数移动平均线 (EMA) 是对近期价格数据给予较大权重的图表工具，能更及时地反映市场趋势。
外部账户 (EOA)
了解以太坊上的外部账户 (EOA)、其运作方式、在交易中的作用，以及保护私钥的重要性。
Fakeout
A situation where a trader enters a position betting on a price movement that quickly reverses or ultimately doesn’t happen.
Falling Knife
Refers to the action of purchasing an asset while it is rapidly declining in price under the expectation that it will bounce.
Fan Tokens
Fan tokens are digital assets that are created by sports teams, clubs or brands to increase fan engagement and create new revenue streams.
Fantom
水龙头
容错
Fear Of Missing Out (FOMO)
The feeling of fear and anxiety that you might be missing out on a potentially profitable opportunity.
Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt (FUD)
A marketing strategy used to spread fear and insecurity among customers, traders, or investors.
Fiat
Money that a government has declared to be legal tender.
法币
Fibonacci Retracement
Fibonacci Retracement is a popular technical analysis (TA) tool used by traders to identify potential support and resistance levels in financial markets.
Fill Or Kill Order (FOK)
A buy or sell order which must be executed immediately in its entirety or else it will be cancelled.
最终性
The assurance or guarantee that completed (cryptocurrency) transactions cannot be altered, reversed or canceled.
最终性概率
金融科技
芬尼
Firefox
防火墙
固件
First-Mover Advantage (FMA)
A competitive advantage of the first project to bring a service or product into a new and unexplored market or industry.
财政政策
财政政策 | 定义：描述当局如何通过调整税率来影响公共资金的收支方式。
Flappening
The name to describe the moment when Litecoin (LTC) surpassed Bitcoin Cash (BCH) in terms of market capitalization
Flashbots
本文将为您介绍Flashbots - 一家专注于完善以太坊区块链MEV解决方案的研发组织。
Flippening
The name to describe the moment when/if Ethereum (ETH) surpasses Bitcoin (BTC) in terms of market capitalization
流量变量
立即探索流量变量，即反映特定时间段内某物数量的测量值，了解流量变量的概念和示例。
Forced Liquidation
When a trader's leveraged position is forcibly closed as a result of it not fulfilling the necessary margin requirements.
Forex (FX)
Forex stands for Foreign Exchange Markets. It's a global market for the trading of fiat currencies.
分叉
分叉是指造成区块链交易历史分裂的一种区块链网络分歧。分叉分为软分叉和硬分叉两类。
Formal Verification
Using mathematically rigorous proofs to ensure certain properties of cryptographic algorithms and blockchain mechanisms
部分所有权
欺诈证明
欺诈证明是指验证者因质疑交易有效性而提交的加密证据，它们广泛用于提高区块链的可扩展性。
Fren
“Fren”是友好称呼他人的网络俚语。该术语在数字社区中发展起来，并在加密货币社区获得广泛使用。
FTM
全节点
Computer that fully implements the entirety of rules of an underlying blockchain network and validates transactions on a blockchain.
Fully Diluted Valuation (FDV)
Fully Diluted Valuation (FDV) is a metric that tells us what a crypto project’s market value could be if all its tokens were available for trading now.
Fundamental Analysis (FA)
Evaluating an asset based on its underlying characteristics and traits as an effort towards arriving at an intrinsic value.
资金费用
资金费用是在永续合约市场中，持有多仓（买入）与空仓（卖出）的交易者之间定期支付的费用。
Fungibility
The property of an asset whose individual units are indistinguishable from each other in terms of value and functionality.
Futures Contract
A legal agreement made between a buyer and a seller to trade an asset at a predefined price and date in the future.
GameFi
GameFi是DeFi的一部分，融合了区块链技术和游戏，提供NFT和加密货币形式的边玩边赚激励。
Ganache
燃料
Gas | 定义：以太坊区块链采用的定价机制，用于计算智能合约的操作成本和交易手续费。
燃料费
燃料限制
Maximum price a cryptocurrency user is willing to pay as a fee when sending a transaction, or performing a smart contract function.
燃料价格
Gas Station Network
GBP
GDP 平减指数
了解 GDP 平减指数，这是一种用于衡量一国所产商品和服务通胀情况的经济工具。探索其在加密货币领域的用例。
General Public License
License allowing users to copy and modify software, but requires the works to be distributed under the same license.
创世区块
The first ever block recorded on its respective blockchain network, also referred to as Block 0 or Block 1.
Gitcoin
GitHub
A site/system/folder/repository where a team can share, collaborate, and save their open source or proprietary code.
早上好(GM)
GM代表“早上好”，在加密货币社区用于体现该环境内的包容性和协作性。
Goerli
Golden Cross
A bullish chart pattern where a shorter-term moving average crosses above a longer-term moving average.
黄金比例
本文将揭开交易中黄金比例的秘密，探讨斐波那契回调水平如何与这一数学概念相吻合，对市场分析产生影响。
金发姑娘定律
本文将为您介绍经济学中“金发姑娘定律”的影响、对加密货币市场的意义，以及对投资者情绪的影响。
Gossip Protocol
A particular method of asynchronous peer-to-peer communication between computer nodes of a distributed system.
治理
国内生产总值 (GDP) 介绍
本文将介绍国内生产总值 (GDP) 的概念、计算方式、对金融市场和加密货币市场的影响以及在经济中的重要性。
GSN
gwei
Gwei | 定义：以太币的一种小面额，广泛用作衡量 Gas 价格的指标。1,000,000,000 wei = 1 Giga wei (Gwei)
Hackathon
A blockchain hackathon is a competition where participants build sample applications atop a blockchain ecosystem.
Hacker
An individual that has an advanced understanding of computer systems and networks, including programmers and cybersecurity experts.
Haha Money Printer Go Brrrrr
Haha Money Printer Go Brrrrr is meme created in response to the Federal Reserve's 2020 plan to print money.
减半
减半是指将比特币(BTC)等PoW加密货币的区块奖励减半的过程。下一次比特币减半预计将于2024年左右发生。
Hard Cap
The maximum amount of funds a project intends to raise during their Initial Coin Offering (ICO) or alternative fundraising event.
硬分叉
硬着陆
经济术语中的“硬着陆”是指经济从增长到迅速放缓甚至衰退的状态。
硬件钱包
Harmony
哈希
The output produced by a hash function after a piece of data is mapped. May also be referred to as hash value, hash code, or digest.
Hash Rate
The speed at which a computer or mining hardware is able to calculate new hashes. Usually measured in hashes per second.
Hashed TimeLock Contract (HTLC)
Refers to a special feature that is used to create smart contracts that are able to modify payment channels.
分层确定性（HD）钱包
羊群心理
羊群心理是一种现象，即交易者倾向于效仿多数人的行动，通常不自行开展研究。
十六进制数据
High-Frequency Trading (HFT)
A type of algorithmic trading that involves the execution of a large number of orders in fractions of a second.
HODL
A typo of 'Hold' originating from bitcointalk that has also been retrofitted to be an acronym for Hold on for Dear Life.
Honeypot
A mechanism used in computer security used to detect or counteract unauthorized access of information systems.
热存储
热钱包
混合网络
超级账本
跨链通信（IBC）
Iceberg Order
Conditional order to buy or sell a large amount of assets in smaller quantities to conceal the total order quantity.
首次代币发行（ICO）
ID
不可篡改性
The inability to change or be changed. One of the core features behind Bitcoin and blockchain technology.
指数基金
本文将介绍指数基金及其运作方式、潜在利弊和对区块链与加密货币市场的潜在影响。
Infura
Initial Coin Offering (ICO)
A fundraising method in which new projects will sell their cryptocurrency to investors.
首次去中心化交易所发行(IDO)
首次去中心化交易平台发行(IDO)是区块链筹资的一种方法，即在去中心化交易平台(DEX)直接公开发售代币。
Initial Exchange Offering (IEO)
The fundraising will be conducted on a well-known exchange’s fundraising platform, such as Binance Launchpad
Initial Public Offering (IPO)
Refers to the moment a private company starts offering its shares to the public for the first time.
铭文
附在比特币最小单位“聪”上并存储在区块链上的一段数据，例如文本、图像或代码。
内幕交易
Integrated Circuit (IC)
A small chip, typically made of silicon, that holds a set of electronic parts such as transistors, resistors or capacitors.
利率
利率可指借入成本或投资收益，通常以本金的百分比表示。
内部交易
互操作性
A concept of allowing blockchains to be compatible with each other and build upon each other's features and use-cases.
星际文件系统（IPFS）
InterPlanetary File System
An open-source project building a protocol for distributed content storage and access.
欠条
IOU (欠条) | 定义：是“我欠你”的首字母缩写，指承认一方欠另一方债务的非正式文件。
IP 地址
IPFS
IPO
Isolated Margin
The margin balance allocated to a position. Traders can manage risk by restricting the amount allocated to each position.
Issuance
Generation of a new cryptocurrency which occurs in a variety of different ways, depending on parameters specified by the creators.
JSON 文件
JSON-RPC
Keccak
Keccak | 定义：由Guido Bertoni、Joan Daemen、Michaël Peeters和Gilles Van Assche设计的多功能加密函数。
密钥库文件
实名认证
身份认证 | 定义：金融行业的企业用于识别客户是否遵守身份认证(KYC)和反洗钱(AML)法规的标准程序
交易监控
Kovan
KYC
KYT
拉氏指数
探索拉氏指数，一种衡量价格随时间变化的工具。了解其在传统市场的用途及在加密货币领域的应用。
Latency
The time between submitting a transaction to a network and the first confirmation of acceptance by the network.
Lattice1
Launchpad
Law of Demand
The law of demand relates to the willingness of consumers to buy a specific amount of goods or services for a particular price.
一层公链
二层公链
A secondary framework or protocol that is built on top of an existing blockchain system to provide increased scalability.
Ledger
A physical book or a digital computer file where monetary and financial transactions are tracked and recorded.
Ledger Live
Ledger Live 应用程序
Leveraged Tokens
Leveraged tokens are a type of cryptocurrency derivative that allows traders to gain leveraged exposure to a particular cryptocurrency without having to manage the margin requirements.
软件库
A collection of stable resources, which may include executable files, documentation, message templates, and written code.
Lido
轻客户端
Lightning Network
A second layer operating on top of a blockchain, enabling increased transaction speed among participating nodes.
限价单
本文将为您介绍交易领域的限价单，及其如何帮助您控制交易价格、避免滑动价差并有效应对高波动市场。
Linea
Linux
A popular open-source operating system, created in 1991 by Linus Torvalds. It is used in a wide range of devices around the world.
流动性质押
流动性质押是一种热门的流动性挖矿方法，指用户将自己的质押资产代币化，以提高DeFi平台的流动性和灵活性。
流动性质押代币 (LST)
了解加密货币领域的流动性质押代币 (LST)。了解质押资产的流动性释放和灵活使用。探索 WBETH 与 DeFi 的获利机会。
清算
流动性
The ability to sell or buy any given asset without causing significant fluctuations in the market price for that asset.
流动性危机
流动性危机是指个人、组织或市场面临现金短缺，难以立即履行财务义务的状况。
流动性池
流动性供应商
流动性供应商(LP)是向金融市场供应买入和卖出订单，以提高市场流动性并确保市场稳定高效的实体或个人。
流动性比率
流动性比率是一种用于衡量公司短期偿债能力的财务指标。
流动性质押
Listing
The addition of an asset to an exchange either as a request from the project team or as a decision made by the exchange.
主网
主网 | 定义：已完全开发和部署的区块链协议，交易在其中进行广播、验证和记录。
Mainnet Swap
When a coin migrates from a third party platform such as Ethereum or other token to a native on-chain token on their mainnet.
Maker
When you place an order and it does not trade immediately, your order stays in the order book for someone else to fill/match with it.
稳定币协议
恶意软件
Any software program or code that is created to infiltrate and intentionally cause damage to computer systems and networks.
Margin Trading
Trading using borrowed funds  - note: this is a high risk strategy and should only be done by experienced investors.
市值
市值
市值 | 定义：某一币种的市价总值，计算方法为该币种的供应量乘以当前价格。
Market Momentum
The ability of a certain market to maintain a continuous increase or decrease in price within a particular timeframe.
市价单
市价单 | 定义：吃单方在订单簿上可选的价格和数量为基础，选择某种加密货币最佳的买入价或卖出价。
Masternode
Nodes on a network that often require a minimum amount of a given coin staked in order to access staking rewards.
匹配引擎
匹配引擎是一种用于处理交易订单的软件，可确保金融市场中买卖双方得到正确的付款。
MATIC
Maximum Supply
Refers to the maximum number of coins or tokens that will be ever created for a given cryptocurrency.
内存池
mempool
A node’s mechanism for keeping track of unconfirmed transactions that the node has seen (but have not yet been added to a block).
Mercuryo
合并
Merged Mining
The act of mining two or more cryptocurrencies at the same time, without sacrificing overall mining performance
梅克尔树
默克尔树
默克尔树 | 定义：一种成体系组织和构建大量数据，使之便于处理的方式。一种基于哈希值的数据结构。
Consensys Mesh
元数据
Data that includes information about other data, such as information about features of a specific transaction.
MetaMask
MetaMask Flask
MetaMask Institutional
MetaMask Learn
MetaMask Swaps
元宇宙
元宇宙这个概念指的是一个持久的线上3D虚拟环境。许多人坚信这将成为未来数字体验的关键要素。
最大可提取价值（MEV）
多因素验证（MFA）
微交易
本文将介绍区块链语境下的微交易概念，助您了解闪电网络将如何持续革新比特币支付领域。
矿工
矿工费
挖矿
挖矿 | 定义：区块链网络中的交易验证过程，其中交易将作为账目添加至区块链账本中。
Mining Farm
A collection of many miners, often in a warehouse or large data center devoted to mining cryptocurrencies
铸币
铸造是指向加密货币生态系统添加新代币，从而供用户在其网络中交易或使用的过程。铸造类似于挖矿，但二者之间存在一些关键区别。
助记词
MobiKwik
模块化区块链
货币政策
货币政策 | 定义：当局为调控一国货币供应量和利率而制定和采取的政策。
货币市场
货币市场是个人和机构交易短期金融工具（如国库券和存单）的场所。欲了解详情，敬请访问币安学院。
观察标签
与种子标签项目不同，币安平台的观察标签用于对较成熟的加密货币项目进行分类。
Moon
A colloquial expression used to describe a cryptocurrency or other asset that is experiencing a strong upward market trend.
MoonPay
移动平均线包络线
探索移动平均线包络线，这是由围绕中心移动平均线展开的两条轨道线组成的技术分析 (TA) 工具。了解其运作方式及其可以为我们提供什么。
移动平均带
本文将为您介绍移动平均带，它由多条移动平均线组成，用于识别市场趋势、市场动量和潜在市场反转。
Mt. Gox
了解昔日最大的比特币平台 Mt. Gox 的兴衰史。在币安学院一窥该平台的安全漏洞、法律余波以及消亡史等诸多内容。
多重签名
多重签名钱包（multisig）
Multisignature
Wallet which requires another party to authorize a transaction before it is broadcasted to the network.
中本聪共识
中本聪共识介绍。这是一种由中本聪创建的重要协议，能够促进安全的去中心化区块链网络的创建。
嵌套区块链
资产净值 (NAV)
资产净值是指实体的资产减去负债后的数值，可帮助投资者了解共同基金或 ETF 的每股价格。
网络
网络拥塞
近距离无线通讯（NFC）
NFT
NFT 聚合器
NFT 投放
NFT地板价
地板价指某个合集中您可以购买的NFT的最低价格。
NFT Mystery Boxes
Non-fungible token (NFT) mystery boxes are a type of digital collectible that contain a random assortment of NFTs that are unknown the buyer until they open the box.
NGMI
NGMI是“不会成功(Not Gonna Make It)”这个英文短语的首字母缩写，用于表达对取得成功或攻克挑战的悲观情绪。
Ngrave
节点
A participant on a blockchain network that communicates with other participants to ensure the security and integrity of the system.
非同质化代币
非同质化代币 (NFT)
一种用于代表独特数字或现实资产的加密代币，无法彼此互换。
唯一交易标识号
A single-use arbitrary string or number generated for verification purposes to prevent replaying past transactions.
OCO Order
An OCO (One Cancels the Other) order allows you to place two orders at the same time. It combines a limit order with a stop-limit order but only one of them can be executed.
链下
了解加密货币链下交易如何提升可扩展性和速度，以及Layer 2解决方案中的链下应用如何降低交易成本。
充值，提现
Offline Signing Orchestrator (OSO)
Offline Signing Orchestrator (OSO)技术由IBM研发，旨在增强冷存储时加密货币和数字资产的安全性。
Offshore account
An account that is registered in a jurisdiction that is different to the jurisdiction of the holder's citizenship.
ommer 区块
链上
链上是指直接记录在区块链上的交易和活动，确保数据的透明度、安全性和不可篡改性。
充值
ONE
opBNB
opBNB是一个重要的layer-2扩展解决方案，从战略上减轻了BNB Smart Chain的交易处理和资源使用负担。
Open-Source Software (OSS)
Software released under a license that gives anyone the ability and right to use, update, and distribute it freely.
OpenSea
Opera
机会成本
本文将介绍机会成本在经济学和交易中的作用，及其如何帮助您做出更明智的决策。阅读本文后，您将学会机会成本的计算方式。
Optimism
乐观性扩容方案（ORU）
预言机
A data source or feed from a third party used for determining outcomes for smart contracts.
ORC-20代币
ORC-20代币在比特币区块链上运行，表示为用序数序列号铭刻在聪上的JSON (JavaScript Object Notation)文件，与BRC-20代币类似。
订单簿
订单簿 | 定义：交易平台或市场中特定资产待买卖订单的电子列表。
Ordinal
Ordinal是指可直接在比特币区块链上铸造的类非同质化代币(NFT)实体。
Orphan Block
A block whose parent block is unknown, formed in older versions of Bitcoin Core, where ancestry data wasn't required.
P2P
PALM
PancakeSwap
PancakeSwap是采用自动做市商(AMM)模式的去中心化交易平台(DEX)，支持多个区块链网络，提供各种DeFi产品和服务。
Paper Wallet
A piece of paper on which the public and private keys of a cryptocurrency address are physically printed out.
并行化
并行化是一种交易处理方式，其网络结构支持同时验证多笔交易。
ParaSwap
对等性
Passive Management
An investing strategy that doesn’t rely on active market exposure but rather tracks an existing economic index.
密语
密码
密码管理工具
PayPal
点对点
When two or more computers are connected and share workload or resources without relying on a centralized server.
挂钩货币
挂钩货币是一种其价值与另一种货币、大宗商品或一篮子货币的价值紧密挂钩的货币类型。
许可账本
非许可型区块链
无许可型区块链是指允许任何人参与共识过程，而无需获得批准、许可或授权的开放网络。
网络钓鱼
A malicious attack where a bad actor will attempt to obtain the credentials of a user in order to gain unauthorised access into their account.
公钥基础设施（PKI）
Plasma（非托管侧链）
An Ethereum off-chain scaling solution which may allow Etherum to greatly increase the transactions per second capablities.
权威证明（PoA）
Polkadot Crowdloan
A crowdsourcing system that allows participants to support specific projects by staking DOT.
Polygon
Ponzi Scheme
A scam in which new investors' funds are used to pay returns promised to previous investors. Do not invest in these.
PoS
PoW
预挖矿
本文将介绍区块链和加密货币领域中预挖矿的概念、目的、潜在优势、劣势、面临的批评以及对市场表现的影响。
Price Action
The price movements of a financial asset over time. Plotted on a chart, it can be used by traders to identify trade setups.
Prisoner's Dilemma
An example that shows why two individuals might not cooperate, even if it may appear to be in their best interest.
私有区块链
私人货币
私钥
In the context of cryptocurrency, a private key is a number that allows users to sign transactions and to generate receiving addresses.
Private Sale
An early stage investment round for strategic investors with a considerable amount of investible funds.
Progressive Web application (PWA)
An application that is created through the use of modern web technologies and follows basic web standards.
Proof of Attendance Protocol (POAP)
A protocol that creates digital badges or collectibles to celebrate and record the attendance of an event. POAPs are minted as ERC-721 tokens on the Ethereum blockchain.
储备金证明(PoR)
储备金证明(PoR) | 定义：储备金证明(PoR)验证旨在证明交易平台持有足以覆盖用户资产的资金。
权益证明
A consensus mechanism that reward block validators according to the amount of coins they have at stake.
权威权益证明(PoSA)
权威权益证明将权益证明和权威证明相合并，通过其同等质押和平衡验证系统来提高区块链的安全性
工作量证明
工作量证明是加密货币共识机制，矿工使用特殊工具解决加密难题，以验证交易并创建新区块。
Proposer-Builder Separation (PBS)
Proposer-builder separation (PBS) is an Ethereum concept aiming to improve scalability by dividing the responsibilities of block building into block proposers and block builders.
Proto-Danksharding
Proto-danksharding是实施Danksharding之前的临时可扩展解决方案，这标志着以太坊2.0（“宁静”阶段）升级进入最后阶段。
协议
Pseudorandom
The property of a definite function that can produce an outcome that passes statistical tests of randomness.
公钥
公共区块链
公钥
公钥是指用于给信息加密或验证数字签名的密钥对的一半。在加密货币领域，公钥本质上即为用户的钱包地址。
公钥加密
哄抬价格
哄抬价格是加密货币领域的一种欺诈行为，通过人为哄抬数字资产价格并将其抛售，导致代币价值暴跌。
二维码
量化宽松 (QE) 介绍
本文将介绍央行用于刺激经济的一种工具 - 量化宽松 (QE)，探讨其对金融市场和加密货币市场的影响。
量化紧缩 (QT)
了解量化紧缩及其对金融和加密货币市场的影响。了解中央银行政策如何影响资产价格和市场情绪。
Quantum Computing
Using particles that can be in superposition. These particles represent qubits and can take the value of 1, 0 or both.
Quorum
Race attack
When two transactions are created with the same funds at the same time, with the intention of spending those funds twice.
Ransomware
A type of malware which takes over your computer and threatens to destroy or reveal files unless a ransom is paid.
Rarible
现实世界资产(RWA)
现实世界资产是指具有内在价值的有形实物资产（如房地产、大宗商品或艺术品），这些资产已被代币化，可在区块链上使用。
经济衰退
本文将为您介绍经济衰退及其对加密货币市场的影响，探索当数字资产遇上经济衰退所呈现出的复杂性和不确定性。
递归铭文
递归铭文是指在自身内部嵌入信息，以形成一个引用循环的过程。本文将为您介绍递归铭文在比特币乃至加密货币领域的运作方式。
Rekt
A slang term used to define someone or something that has been destroyed or experienced catastrophic failure and a synonym for liquidated
Relative Strength Index (RSI)
A technical indicator that measures market momentum & used to identify overbought and oversold conditions.
中继器
远程过程调用
Resistance
A term in Technical Analysis (TA). When a price that is increasing finds resistance. Usually compared with previous highs.
Return on Investment (ROI)
A measure used in order to assess the efficiency of an investment. The ratio between net profit and net cost.
报复性交易
了解报复性交易的概念、原理及其风险。了解报复性交易对交易者财务状况和情绪的影响。
Rinkeby
风险溢价
在金融领域，风险溢价是指投资者因承担较高风险而期望或要求的回报。这一概念对做出明智的投资决策至关重要。欲了解详情，敬请访问币安学院。
路线图
A business planning technique which lays out the short and long term goals of a company within a flexible estimated timeline.
Rocket Pool
扩容方案
Ropsten
Routing Attack
Attack on the Internet Service Provider level to affect uptime or participation in a web-enabled system, such as a blockchain.
RPC
跑路
A rug pull in the crypto industry is when a development team suddenly abandons a project and sells or removes all its liquidity.
Safeheron
萨姆法则
萨姆法则通过监测失业率来识别经济衰退。如果失业率近 3 个月平均值较过去一年中的最低水平上涨 0.5% 及以上，表明经济可能已陷入衰退。
Samsung Pay
沙盒
三明治交易
三明治交易，也称三明治攻击(Sandwich attacks/Sandwiching)，是加密货币市场中的一种交易策略或操纵技术。
Sardine
Satoshi
The smallest unit of a bitcoin, as defined by the Bitcoin protocol. It equals one-hundred-millionth of a bitcoin or 0.00000001 BTC.
中本聪
Satoshi Nakamoto was the pseudonym of the creator or creators of the bitcoin protocol and whitepaper.
可扩展性
扩容
欺诈
Scrypt 挖掘算法
SDK
搜索引擎
私钥助记词
用户资产安全基金 (SAFU)
SAFU | 定义：用户资产安全基金(SAFU)是币安于2018年设立的应急保险基金。
证券交易委员会 (SEC)
证券交易委员会 (SEC) | 定义：负责监管证券市场的独立政府机构。
Security Audit
A systematic analysis to evaluate how safe a system, smart contract, or blockchain is against attacks or technical failures.
证券型代币
证券型代币发行
证券型代币发行 (STO)
本文将介绍证券型代币发行 (STO)——一种通过发行证券型代币来筹集资金的方式，探讨此种发行方式能够为投资者提供哪些优势。
助记词
A seed phrase or menmonic seed is a collection of words that can be used to access your cryptocurrency wallet.
种子标签
该标签通常用于对开发初期的加密货币进行分类，这些加密货币可能尚未推出成熟的产品或尚未建立用户群。
隔离见证(SegWit)
隔离见证，通常缩写为SegWit，是比特币协议的一次更新，致力于在解决网络的可扩展性和安全问题。
自主托管
自动执行
Selfish Mining
The strategic withholding and releasing of blocks by a miner in order to gain a competitive advantage over the network.
Sell Wall
A very large limit sell order or a cumulation of sell orders at the same price level on an order book for an asset.
Sentiment
The overall attitude of a community in regards to a cryptocurrency or within investors towards a certain financial market.
Sepolia
Serenity
序列化
分片区块链
分片
分片 | 定义：分片是将区块链或其他类型的数据库拆分为较小分区的区块链，以管理特定数据段的方式。
Sharpe Ratio
A ratio created in 1966 that investors and economists use to assess the potential return of investment (ROI).
隐私交易
侧链
侧链
侧链是连接至主链的独立区块链，旨在提高可扩展性并促进数字资产在网络间的划转。
简单移动平均线 (SMA)
本文将介绍简单移动平均线 (SMA)，这是交易者用于识别市场趋势和潜在买卖信号的基本技术分析工具。
罚没
罚没是一种用于惩罚恶意或疏忽行为的机制，为依赖质押并采用权益证明 (PoS) 共识机制的区块链所使用。
削减条件
滑移
滑动价差是指交易的结算价格与交易者最初要求或预期的价格不同的情形，通常发生在市场流动性较低和使用市价单时。
时间间隔（Slot）
智能合约
智能合约是某些区块链网络上自动执行的合约，其条件和条款直接写在代码中。
智能合约钱包
智能合约钱包属于加密货币钱包。该钱包利用可编程的智能合约引入高级功能和增强安全特性。
Snapshot
The ability to record the state of a blockchain ledger, storage device, or computer system at a specific point in time.
社交恢复钱包
社交恢复钱包是支持找回加密货币的加密钱包。它们会借助可信的联系人，使用户可以在丢失密钥或忘记密码时重新获得钱包的访问权限。
社交交易
社交交易是一种让个人能够模仿专业投资者和市场专家交易行为的实时策略。
SocialFi
SocialFi是“Social Finance（社交金融）”的缩写，表示去中心化金融(DeFi)原理与社交媒体发展变化的融合。
软分叉
软着陆
软着陆是指经济在逐渐放缓快速增长速度的同时，避免陷入衰退的状态。
Solidity
Solidity 是一种于 2014 年推出的编程语言，专用于在以太坊区块链上编写和实现智能合约。
Source Code
Computer code, which is responsible for defining how software will function based on a list of instructions and statements.
SPL
SPL即Solana程序库，它是一套规则和协议，用于管理代币在Solana网络上的行为和交互方式。
SRC-20代币
SRC-20是一种代币标准，它利用比特币邮票在比特币网络上发行同质化代币，以此来提高比特币区块链的实用性。
稳定币
一种旨在保持价值稳定，避免大幅波动的加密货币。
滞胀
滞胀是一种经济困境，表现为经济增长缓慢、就业机会减少以及通货膨胀（商品和服务价格上涨）。
权益
质押
Staking Pool
A pool where stakeholders combine their staking power to increase their chance of successfully validating a new block.
状态
State Channel
A two-way communication channel between two users or nodes on a network, or between a user and a service.
状态通道
stETH
了解 stETH，这是以太坊质押奖励的代币化代表形式。了解该代币如何提高加密货币投资的可及性和流动性。
STO
存量变量
探索存量变量，即特定时间点测量的经济资源数量。了解加密货币存量变量的一些示例。
Store of Value
A commodity, asset or currency that can be saved, retrieved and exchanged at a future date, without suffering depreciation.
资金流
Supercomputer
A computer or virtual machine that operates at the highest level of currently possible computing power.
Supply Chain
A network of people and businesses involved in creating and distributing a particular product or serving a particular customer.
Support
A term in Technical Analysis (TA). When a price that is decreasing finds 'support'. Usually compared with lows.
兑换
女巫攻击
本文将介绍女巫攻击，这是一种使用虚假身份操纵网络的网络威胁，可能会影响金融市场和加密货币市场。
szabo
Taker
The 'taker' is someone who decides to place an order that is instantly matched with an existing order on the order book.
Tank
A term adopted from the traditional financial markets and describes a strong negative financial performance of a particular asset
Teku
Telegram
测试网
测试网是主网的副本，为探索和测试区块链功能提供安全无风险的环境。
Testnet Kovan
Testnet Rinkeby
Testnet Ropsten
Ticker
The trading 'symbol' or shortened name (typically in capital letters) that refer to a coin on a trading platform. For example: BNB
Ticker Symbol
A ticker symbol is a shorthand code that represents a stock, bond, cryptocurrency, or other traded asset. Learn more at Binance Academy.
代币
Tokens (not to be confused with coins) are digital units issued on a blockchain. They can hold value or be redeemed for assets.
代币生成活动(TGE)
代币生成活动(TGE)是区块链项目的一种众筹方式。了解TGE的概念、优缺点及其与ICO的区别。
代币锁定
Token lockup or vesting period refers to the time span in which tokens or coins are not allowed to be transferred or traded.
代币合并
代币合并是指将两种或多种加密货币代币合并为一种代币的过程。本文将介绍代币合并及其对加密货币价格的潜在影响。
Token Sale
The issuance of tokens in exchange for another cryptocurrency. Also referred to as an Initial Coin Offering.
代币标准
代币标准
本文将介绍区块链网络中的ERC-20、ERC-721、BEP-20和TRC-20代币标准，以及这些标准在加密货币交易和DApp中发挥的作用。
代币化
代币化是指将房地产、艺术品或金融工具等现实世界资产转化为区块链上数字代币的过程。
代币经济学
“代币经济学”一词结合了“代币”和“经济学”这两个词，让我们得以了解代币的运作方式，以及可能影响代币价值的各种因素
Total Supply
Refers to the number of coins or tokens that currently exists and are either in circulation or locked somehow.
总锁定价值(TVL)
总锁定价值(TVL)是加密货币行业中使用广泛的指标，用于衡量锁定在去中心化金融(DeFi)协议中的资产总值。
TradFi
TradFi (traditional finance) is the established financial system most people interact with in their daily lives.
交易
交易区块
交易费用
交易 ID
交易ID | 定义：交易ID (TXID)是一个用于标记区块链上每笔交易的唯一字符串。
交易池
Transactions Per Second (TPS)
The number of transactions that a blockchain network is capable of processing each second.
Transak
国库券 (T-bill)
国库券是低风险政府证券，可能会影响利率和市场情绪。欲了解国库券的概念及其运作方式，敬请访问币安学院。
Trezor
TrueUSD (TUSD)
TrueUSD是一种与美元挂钩的稳定币，它与多个区块链网络集成，是增长最快的稳定币之一。
Truffle
去信任
No single entity has authority over the system and consensus is achieved between participants who do not have to trust each other.
图灵完备
A machine that, given enough time and memory along with the necessary instructions, can solve any computational problem.
总锁仓价值（TVL）
交易 ID
U2F（通用第二因素）
赵长鹏(CZ)推文中的“4”有何含义
“4”代表CZ新年计划中的第四条，即忽视恐惧、犹豫和怀疑(FUD)、假新闻和对币安的攻击。
未加密密钥
Uniswap
Unit of Account
One of the primary properties of money. Allowing measurement and comparison of the value of different things.
未花费的交易输出
Unspent Transaction Output (UTXO)
An output created in a transaction, which must be referenced in a future transaction to spend funds.
解除质押
升级
URL
USD
User Interface (UI)
The interface where interactions between humans and machines occur. It establishes how a user can interact with a machine.
效用代币
通过区块链网络发行的数字代币，常规发行渠道包括首次代币发行(ICO)、首次交易所发行(IEO)和代币生成活动(TGE)。
UTXO
验证器
有效性证明
Verification Code
Code sent to a second device to ensure the identity of someone logging in to an account. Used for Two-Factor Authentication
等待行权
VillageDAO
Virtual Machine
An emulated computer system, or a distributed system that is designed to replicate the features of a computer's architecture.
Vladimir Club
A term used to describe someone who has acquired 1% of 1% (0.01%) of the maximum supply of a cryptocurrency.
Volatility
How quickly and how much the price of an asset changes. Calculated in terms of standard deviations in the annual return of an asset
Volume
A measurement of the number of individual units of an asset that changed hands in a market during a given time.
WAGMI
“WAGMI”是“我们都会成功(We’re All Gonna Make It)”的首字母缩写，专门用在加密货币社区中，鼓励人们保持乐观态度。
钱包
Used to send and receive cryptocurrencies. Different types include software wallets, hardware wallets, and paper wallets.
钱包地址
WalletConnect
刷单交易
刷单交易是一种不道德的欺骗性行为，涉及同时买入和卖出某种资产，来制造虚假的市场活动。
Weak Hands
A term referring to traders or investors who lack the confidence to hold their assets or to follow their trading plans.
Weak Subjectivity
Relates to the need for certain nodes to rely on other nodes when determining the current state of a PoS blockchain.
Web 1.0
The initial iteration of the web, when data was primarily read-only pages connected with hyperlinks. Also known as 'read-only' web.
Web 3.0
Web3
WebHID
网络钩子
WebSocket
wei
Wei | 定义：以太坊网络中的以太币 (ETH) 的最小面额，通常用于衡量 Gas 价格。
加权移动平均线 (WMA)
本文将为您介绍一种基本的技术分析工具——加权移动平均线 (WMA)，它可以平滑价格数据，对近期价格变化更为敏感。
Whale
An individual or organization that holds a large amount of Bitcoins or other cryptocurrency, allowing them to impact the markets.
Whiskers
Lines extending from a colored bar in a candlestick chart that indicate the low-high range of a trading pair within a time frame.
Whitelist
A list of allowed or trusted individuals, computer programs, or cryptocurrency addresses in relation to a service or event.
白皮书
Wick
Line found on a candlestick chart used to indicate where the price of an asset is fluctuating in regards to its opening and closing price
胜率
胜率 | 定义：金融市场中的胜率是衡量交易者盈利能力的指标。
Wrapped Ether (WETH)
ERC-20 token representing Ether at a 1:1 ratio. It allows users to trade ETH to ERC-20 tokens on decentralized platforms.
包装
威科夫方法
威科夫方法是理查德·威科夫(Richard Wyckoff)创立于20世纪30年代的交易投资方法，对现代技术分析影响深远。
Wyre
扩展密钥（XPRIV）
扩展公钥（XPUB）
收益代币
收益挖矿
流动性挖矿是DeFi领域中的一种高风险操作，即投资者锁定资产，提供流动性、贷款或质押，用以赚取收益或利息。
0地址
零知识证明
零知识证明
零知识证明 | 定义：零知识证明可以在不泄露任何交易信息的情况下验证交易的有效性，保护交易隐私。
零知识汇总
零知识汇总
零知识汇总是一种Layer 2扩容解决方案，其目标是在不影响安全性的前提下提高区块链网络的交易吞吐量。
零知识简洁非交互知识论证（zk-SNARK）
zk-SNARK | 定义：zk-SNARK即“零知识简明非交互式知识证明”，是一种实现零知识证明的方式。
zk-STARK
zk-STARK允许一方（证明者）与第三方交流经过验证的数据或执行计算，而无需将相关数据或分析透露给对方（验证者）。
