0x API
0xplain
1inch
雙重要素驗證 (2FA)
3Box Labs
51%攻擊
51% 攻擊 | 定義：指一位或一組礦工控制網路 50% 以上的挖礦算力或運算能力。
Aave
Absolute Advantage
An economics concept in which one party has a direct advantage in efficiency in producing/providing a specific good or service over another party.
帳戶
ACH 轉帳
Active Management
An investing strategy employed by fund managers aiming to outperform an index or market in order to generate profits.
主動驗證服務 (AVS)
主動驗證服務 (AVS) 持續監控和驗證，以增強區塊鏈和加密貨幣的安全性、效能和合規性。
Ad Hoc
The phrase 'ad hoc' is a phrase of Latin origin that is used in modern English to mean 'for this purpose' or 'specifically for this.'
地址
String of text that designates the location of a particular wallet on the blockchain. Often a hashed version of a public key.
聚合器
Agoric
氣隙隔離
空投
Distribution of digital assets to the public, by virtue of holding a certain token or by virtue of being an active wallet address.
AirGap Vault
AirSwap
算法
演算法 | 定義：用於解決問題的一系列明確指令。
All or None Order (AON)
An AON order, once placed, must either be filled in its entirety or not at all. This prevents any partial filling of orders.
All-Time High (ATH)
The highest price of a cryptocurrency in a quote​ currency, such as a dollar, BTC, ETH, or BNB
Allocation
Percentage distribution of tokens. For example a project may allocate 40% of tokens to their team.
Alpha
The first look at a product released by a team, consisting of the very first version of a primitive, basic software or product.
山寨幣
A cryptocurrency that is alternative to Bitcoin. Altcoin is used to describe cryptocurrencies that are not Bitcoin.
反洗錢
Angel Investor
Wealthy investors that seek out opportunities to provide funding for entrepreneurs or start-up companies.
洗錢防制 (AML)
洗錢防制 | 定義：旨在最小化和遏制非法或可疑活動所產生資金流動的法律和監管程序。
API
應用程式鏈
Apple Pay
Application Programming Interface (API)
Collection of functions and procedures that allow users to interact with the data of an application.
Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC)
An Integrated Circuit customized for maximum performance in a particular use.
套利
套利 | 定義：在不同市場上買賣資產，以利用相同資產的不同價格。
Arbitrum
ARC-20
了解 Atomicals ARC-20 代幣，這是比特幣區塊鏈上同質化代幣的代幣標準。探索它們的運作方式及其潛在實用案例。
人工智慧 (AI)
探索人工智慧 (AI) 在醫療保健、商業、教育、金融、安全、製造和運輸方面的轉型力量。
特定應用積體電路
ASIC-resistant
The property of a cryptocurrency that is “immune” to ASIC mining. Allowing the mining to become more decentralized.
Ask Price
The lowest price a seller would be willing to accept when placing their sell order while trading an asset on an exchange.
Asset Management
A system or method that helps individuals or companies manage assets. Either on behalf of their clients or their own.
資產溯源
資產管理規模 (AUM)
AUM (資產管理規模) 是由實體代表客戶管理的金融資產的市值，顯示影響力和營運規模。
Asynchronous
Events in electronic systems that do not happen at the same time or speed, or happen independent of the main program flow.
Atomic Swap
A technique of peer-to-peer cryptocurrency trading based on smart contract technology that removes the need for intermediaries.
Attack surface
Points in a software environment where an attacker can attempt to enter or extract data from the system.
證明
Auction
A live event where assets or services are negotiated through a bidding process, which is often led by an auctioneer.
Aurora
自動做市商 (AMM)
自動做市商 (AMM) 是去中心化交易所 (DEX) 協定的子集。他們讓用戶能夠交易數位資產，無須中間機構。
Avalanche
AVAX
Axie Infinity
B-Token
B-Token 指的是幣安鑄造的一系列完全抵押的打包代幣名稱。
Bags
The portfolio of coins and tokens one is holding. Often related to a poorly performing bag of assets that investors insist to hold.
Banxa
信標鏈
信標鏈 | 定義：信標鏈是以太坊的權益證明 (PoS) 層，共識在此生成。
Bear Market
A negative trend in prices of a market. It is widely used not only in the cryptocurrency space but also in the traditional markets
Benchmark
A measurement standard which can be used to gauge the performance of a particular asset or investment portfolio
BEP-1155
BEP-1155 代幣標準支援在 BNB 鏈的單一智能合約中結合同質化和非同質化代幣 (NFT)。
BEP-20
BEP-20 是 BNB 智能鏈上的代幣標準，它擴展了最常見的以太坊代幣標準 ERC-20。
BEP-721
BEP-721 是一個 BNB 智能鏈 (BSC) 代幣標準，允許創建非同質化代幣 (NFT)。
BEP-95
BEP-95 | 定義：BEP-95 是一項幣安演化提案 (Binance Evolution Proposal)，為 BNB 智能鏈引進了即時銷毀機制。它讓 BNB 的代幣經濟學更加動態與去中心化。
Besu
Beta (Coefficient)
A tool used to measure the volatility of an asset in comparison to the volatility of a specific portfolio or market index.
Beta (Release)
An early version of a program for users to test and for a team to get feedback. This stage comes after the Alpha stage.
Bid-Ask Spread
The difference in price between the lowest asking price and highest bid price on the order book for an asset.
Bid Price
In the context of financial markets, it is the value buyers offer for an asset, such as a commodity, security, or cryptocurrency.
Binance
Blockchain Charity Foundation
The world's first decentralized charity platform to advocate the concept of 'blockchain for social good'.
Binance Ecosystem Fund (BEF)
An initiative by Binance to collaborate with partners who care about the blockchain/cryptocurrency ecosystem.
幣安夥伴
「幣安夥伴」這個詞彙指的是積極參與、或為加密貨幣交易所幣安做出貢獻的個人。
比特幣
A cryptocurrency created by the pseudonymous developer(s) Satoshi Nakamoto, initially described as a 'Peer-to-Peer e-cash'.
Bitcoin Core
Leading implementation of the software that enables users to interact with the Bitcoin network. Initially released by Satoshi.
Bitcoin Dominance
The ratio of Bitcoin's market capitalization versus the sum of the market capitalizations of all cryptocurrencies.
比特幣至上主義者
比特幣至上主義者相信比特幣是唯一有價值的加密貨幣，並且是全球金融的未來。
Bitcoin Pizza
The first known transaction where Bitcoin was exchanged for a physical good. Laszlo Hanyecz paid 10,000 BTC for two pizzas.
Black Swan Event
An event that is often entirely unexpected and deviates from the expected result causing widespread ramifications.
區塊
A computer file that stores transaction data. These can then be arranged in a linear sequence, which will form a blockchain.
區塊鏈瀏覽器
Online Blockchain webpage which allows users to browse information about blocks, transactions, balances and more.
Block header
A section in a block containing metadata and a summary of the block's transactions. This is the information hashed when mining.
區塊高度
The number of blocks in the chain between itself and the first block on that blockchain (genesis block or block 0).
出塊獎勵
區塊獎勵 | 定義：區塊鏈協定向每個成功挖礦並驗證的區塊授予加密貨幣礦工的代幣總和。
出塊時間
Blockaid
區塊鏈
區塊鏈 | 定義：按時間順序記錄加密貨幣交易相關資訊的去中心化數位分類帳。
區塊鏈瀏覽器
區塊鏈的三難困境
Bloom Filter
A data structure which is able to be used to inform the user whether a particular item is part of a set of items
藍籌代幣
藍籌 (Blue-chip) 加密貨幣指的是經過時間考驗的代幣。這些資產受到認可且價值可靠。
BNB
BNB | 定義：於 2017 年 7 月 3 日結束的首次代幣發行之後推出。用來換取交易所交易手續費折扣等。
BNB Chain
BNSOL
BNSOL 是一種可交易代幣，代表您在幣安質押的 SOL。它是一種流動性質押代幣，可提供流動性和資本效率。
Bollinger Bands
A technical analysis indicator that measures market volatility. It's made of two sidelong bands and a simple moving average.
債券
債券是一種固定收益投資，代表投資者向借款人 (通常是企業或政府) 提供的貸款。
懸賞
A reward posted by a group or individual to incentivize certain work, behavior (such as referrals), or development.
腦錢包
Brave
BRC-20 代幣
BRC-20 是一種實驗性代幣標準，可透過比特幣區塊鏈上的 Ordinals 協定鑄造和轉移同質化代幣。
Break-Even Point (BEP)
The point where the total costs of an operation is equivalent to its current value or revenue.
Breakeven Multiple
The multiple of the current price by which an asset needs to appreciate in order to reach its previous all-time high.
Breakout
When the price of an asset moves outside of a defined range or pattern, typically by breaking out of a support or resistance area.
跨鏈橋
BscScan
BscScan 是專為 BNB 智能鏈 (BSC) 用戶設計的區塊鏈瀏覽器。它是由熱門以太坊區塊鏈瀏覽器 Etherscan 背後的同一團隊所開發。
BTC
BTC 錢包地址
BTC 錢包地址是一串獨一無二的字母和數字，用於發送和接收比特幣交易。
BUIDL
Originally derived from HODL, a term referring to keeping your heads down and focusing on building your product.
Bull Market
A positive trend in prices of a market. It is widely used not only in the cryptocurrency space but also in the traditional markets
一次性錢包
探索一次性錢包，這是一種臨時加密貨幣錢包，用戶可以將其用於安全地與具潛在危險的區塊鏈應用程式互動。
Buy Wall
A single huge buy order or the composition of multiple large buy orders at the same price in the order book of a particular market.
位元組碼
拜占庭容錯算法
拜占庭分叉
候選區塊
候選區塊 | 定義：挖礦節點 (礦工) 創建的臨時區塊，以新增到區塊鏈並獲得區塊獎勵。
Candlestick
A graph representation of price action that displays the open, close, high, and low points within a certain period.
Capitulation
A period of strong selling activity, where investors give up their positions and sell their holdings as quickly as possible.
Celo
Censorship-resistance
The property of a cryptocurrency network that prevents any entity from altering transactions on it.
Central Bank
A financial institution that acts as a monetary authority and manages a states currency, interest rates, and money supply.
中央銀行數位貨幣 (CBDC)
中央銀行數位貨幣 (CBDC) 是由治理央行發行的官方認可數位貨幣。CBDC 可以批發或零售。
Central Processing Unit (CPU)
The part of a computer responsible for interpreting instructions of computer programs and executing operations.
Centralized
When the planning and decision-making mechanisms are concentrated in a particular point within a system.
中心化交易所
了解中心化交易所的世界、以高流動性、先進交易工具和風險考量而聞名的傳統加密貨幣市場。
CEX
鏈ID
ChatGPT
ChatGPT 是 OpenAI 開發的語言處理模型，代表自然語言處理 (NLP) 領域的重大進展
Chrome
Cipher
A method for encrypting and decrypting messages. Ciphers can be divided into symmetric or asymmetric, according to their key model.
Circulating Supply
The best approximate number of cryptocurrency coins or tokens that are publicly available and circulating in the market.
客戶端
Cloud
In computer science, a shared pool of resources, which are made available to multiple users through the Internet.
Codefi
幣
A cryptocurrency or digital cash that is independent of any other platform, which is used as exchange of value.
Coinbase Pay
CoinGecko
冷儲存
了解冷儲存的本質：了解它是什麼、它如何保護您持有的加密貨幣。
冷錢包
Collateral
Pledging something of value against a loan to guarantee that the person taking the loan will complete repayment.
Colocation
A dedicated space in a data center belonging to stock exchanges which is shared with other entities such as high-frequency traders.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)
US-based agency responsible for regulating derivatives, including options, swaps, and futures.
編譯
Compound
複利
複利是指本金所累積的利息，包含之前各期的利息。
確認
確認時間
確認時間 | 定義：區塊鏈交易核准並新增至分類帳所需的時間間隔。
Confluence
When multiple investment methods, technical indicators, or trading signals are combined to form a more reliable strategy.
共識
共識演算法
共識演算法是一種機制，用於協助區塊鏈網路中的不同電腦對真實內容達成一致，即使部分電腦違反規則。
共識層客戶端
共識層
共識機制
Consensys
君士坦丁堡分叉
Consumer Price Index (CPI)
A Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a measure used to track the effects of inflation over a period of time.
期貨升水與期貨貼水
期貨升水與期貨貼水用於描述商品合約價格與未來預期現貨價格之間的關係。上述兩種指標對交易與對沖很有幫助。
合約
合約帳戶
CoolWallet
跟單交易
探索加密貨幣跟單交易的好處。了解如何跟單交易、管理風險、分散投資以及透過幣安學院促進共享學習。
交易對手風險
交易對手風險指的是參與金融交易的其中一方可能違約或未能履行合約義務，導致另一方的財務損失。
Credentials
Personal information. Examples include username, password, email address, qualifications and many more.
跨鏈橋
區塊鏈橋連接不同的區塊鏈網路，實現數位資產跨網路的移動，並促進加密貨幣空間的互通性。
加密-
加密資產
加密貨幣賞金
加密-法規遵循
加密貨幣 ETF
加密貨幣 ETF 可讓投資人在未直接持有或管理加密貨幣的情況下獲得加密貨幣價格變動曝險。
加密貨幣恐懼與貪婪指數
加密貨幣恐懼與貪婪指數是使用多種指標來協助衡量整體加密貨幣市場情緒的工具，評分範圍為 0 到 100 分。
加密貨幣基金
加密貨幣協定
加密貨幣協定是一組規則與程序，用於管理去中心化網路行為。
加密貨幣錢包
加密貨幣寒冬
加密貨幣寒冬 | 定義：加密貨幣寒冬這個術語是指加密貨幣市場中出現長時間的價格下跌或停滯以及負面情緒。
CryptoCompare
加密貨幣
加密貨幣 | 定義： 藉由加密技術提供保護，可在點對點 (C2C) 經濟體系中作為交易媒介的數位貨幣。
加密經濟學
密碼學
密碼學 | 定義：使用數學理論和計算來加密和解密資訊的科學。
Curve
託管
保管 | 定義：意指代表客戶持有資產。也可以指某人的資金或資產所有權。
D'CENT
Daemon
A process operating in the background waiting for a specific event or condition in order to be activated.
DAI
Dank 分片
Dank 分片為分片帶來一種新方法，並在最佳化以太坊網路的資料管理和交易處理方面發揮關鍵作用。
DAO
dapp
DDoS攻擊
Dead Cat Bounce
A brief recovery in the price of a declining asset that is shortly followed by a continuation of the downtrend.
死亡交叉
探索死亡交叉及其在預測市場下跌中的作用。了解其運作方式，以及它可與哪些指標一起使用以獲得更好的市場訊號。
去中心化
去中心化應用程式
DApp 是在 C2C 電腦網路而非中央資料庫上運行的應用程式。用戶可以自由使用加密貨幣錢包連接 DApp。
Decentralized Autonomous Cooperative (DAC)
An organization that is controlled by shareholders rather than a central authority.
去中心化自治組織
定義：一種規則無法變更的系統，用於定義去中心化組織將採取的行動。
去中心化交易所
An exchange which does not require users to deposit funds to start trading and does not hold the funds for the user.
去中心化金融
去中心化指數
去中心化指數是一種金融產品，可追蹤多種加密貨幣或數位資產在去中心化交易所的交易表現。
去中心化網路
Decryption
The act of reverting an encryption process so that unreadable data (ciphertext) can be converted into readable data (plaintext).
Deep Web
The part of the web that is somehow hidden, i.e., not indexed by Google and other traditional web sarch engines.
去中心化金融
DPoS
Delisting
The removal of an asset from an exchange either as a request from the project team or as a decision made by the exchange.
以太幣
脫鉤
了解原因、影響和預防措施，以避免脫鉤並確保穩定幣在加密貨幣市場中的可靠性和信任。
入金
蕭條
了解經濟蕭條：探索其原因、影響以及它如何在金融不穩定時期影響加密貨幣市場。
金融衍生品
Design Flaw Attack
Smart contract, decentralized market, or other software created with intentional flaws to trick users interacting with them
開發者
Devcon
開發者
去中心化交易所
鑽石手
鑽石手 | 定義：鑽石手是指無論金融資產如何波動，一旦持有即不再賣出。
難度值
In cryptocurrency, difficulty indicates the difficulty required to mine a block. Learn more at Binance Academy.
難度炸彈
The term 'difficulty bomb' denotes the increase in mining difficulty in Ethereum, as part of its migration to Proof of Stake.
數位資產
數位身分
數位簽章
一種用於驗證數位資料真實性和完整性的密碼工具，確保資料通訊和加密貨幣交易的安全性。
Diligence
直接市場接入 (DMA)
直接市場接入可讓投資者直接在交易所進行交易，繞過經紀商以獲得更快的執行速度、更多的控制權和更低的手續費。
分散式帳本技術
Divergence
When the market price of an asset and a technical indicator (e.g. RSI, Volume, MACD) are heading in opposite directions.
Diversification
The allocation of funds across different types of assets and jurisdictions in order to reduce the overall risks.
DLT
做好研究 (DYOR)
自行研究 (DYOR) | 定義：一個寶貴的建議。相較於聽從別人的說法，自行研究代幣總是比較明智的。
Dollar Cost Averaging (DCA)
Investing fixed dollar amounts over regular periods of time regardless of the price of the asset.
點狀圖
探索點狀圖在資料視覺化方面的強大功能。了解 Cleveland 和 Wilkinson 點狀圖，以及美聯儲的利率點狀圖。
雙重支付
Double Spending
When a given amount of coins are spent more than once. Usually as a result of a race attack or a 51% attack.
Eclipse Attack
When peers on the network are malicious and monopolize the network in order to prevent specific nodes from communicating.
生態圈
企業以太坊聯盟
Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH)
An economic theory stating financial markets reflect all available information on the price of assets at any time.
EigenLayer
探索 EigenLayer：該協定引進以太坊的重新質押群體，以實現去中心化信任、提供安全性、創新性和敏捷性。
EIP
EIP stands for Ethereum Improvement Proposal. It’s a way for the Ethereum community to suggest upgrades or new ideas for the blockchain.
EIP-1559
EIP-3074
了解 EIP-3074 如何透過強化的交易安全性和靈活性改造以太坊。隨時掌握它和以太坊 Pectra 升級的整合消息。
以太坊改進提案 4844 (EIP-4844)
EIP-4844，也稱為 Proto-Dank 分片，是一項升級提議，旨在降低以太坊的手續費並增加交易流通量。
EIP-7251
EIP-7251 aims to improve Ethereum’s scalability and efficiency by reducing the number of active validators while maintaining decentralization.
EIP-7702
了解 EIP-7702 提案如何透過將智能合約功能新增至外部持有帳戶 (EOA) 來強化以太坊。
彈性
揭示彈性的意義，即衡量一項變數如何反應另一項變數的變化。了解如何將彈性應用於交易和日常生活中。
加密金鑰
加密
Conversion of information or data into a secure code in order to prevent unauthorised access to the information or data.
內生變數
探索內生變數，意即反映經濟模型內部動態的變數。了解加密貨幣中內生變數的一些範例。
ENS
熵
時間週期
ERC
ERC-1155
探索 ERC-1155 代幣的多功能性。適合遊戲、數位收藏品以及有效管理多種代幣類型。
ERC-20
A technical standard used to issue and implement tokens on the Ethereum blockchain proposed in November 2015 by Fabian Vogelsteller.
ERC-404
ERC-404 是融合同質化和非同質化的代幣標準。了解其獨特功能、半同質化性質、鑄造和銷毀機制等。
ERC-721
An Ethereum based non-fungible token. This means that each token is unique and as a result, not interchangeable.
ETF
了解什麼是 ETF，並探索其在加密貨幣市場中的角色：對投資者和金融生態系的好處、影響和挑戰。
ETH
以太幣
以太坊
Ethereum 2.0
以太坊經典
以太坊經典 (ETC) 源自惡名昭彰的以太坊硬分叉，其發生原因是 2016 年的 DAO 駭客事件。與 ETH 不同，ETC 仍然使用工作量證明。
以太坊基金會
探索以太坊基金會在區塊鏈發展中的作用。從研究到社群支持，了解它如何塑造去中心化技術的未來。
以太坊改進提案
以太坊主網路
以太坊域名服務
以太坊虛擬機
以太坊虛擬機 (EVM)
以太坊虛擬機 (EVM) 是一台圖靈完備的可程式化機器，可執行智能合約，通常以 Solidity 撰寫。
Etherscan
EUR
EVM
交易所
A marketplace for cryptocurrencies where users can buy and sell coins.
執行客戶端
執行層
外生變數
探索外生變數，意即有助於解釋可能影響經濟模型的外部影響之變數。了解加密貨幣中的外生變數。
指數移動平均線 (EMA)
指數移動平均線 (EMA) 是賦予最近價格資料更多權重的圖表工具，可提供對市場趨勢更靈敏的視圖。
外部持有帳戶 (EOA)
了解以太坊上的外部持有帳戶 (EOA)、其運作方式、在交易中的作用，以及保護私鑰的重要性。
Fakeout
A situation where a trader enters a position betting on a price movement that quickly reverses or ultimately doesn’t happen.
Falling Knife
Refers to the action of purchasing an asset while it is rapidly declining in price under the expectation that it will bounce.
Fan Tokens
Fan tokens are digital assets that are created by sports teams, clubs or brands to increase fan engagement and create new revenue streams.
Fantom
水龍頭
容錯
Fear Of Missing Out (FOMO)
The feeling of fear and anxiety that you might be missing out on a potentially profitable opportunity.
Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt (FUD)
A marketing strategy used to spread fear and insecurity among customers, traders, or investors.
Fiat
Money that a government has declared to be legal tender.
法定貨幣
Fibonacci Retracement
Fibonacci Retracement is a popular technical analysis (TA) tool used by traders to identify potential support and resistance levels in financial markets.
Fill Or Kill Order (FOK)
A buy or sell order which must be executed immediately in its entirety or else it will be cancelled.
最終
The assurance or guarantee that completed (cryptocurrency) transactions cannot be altered, reversed or canceled.
最終率
金融科技
芬尼
Firefox
防火牆
韌體
First-Mover Advantage (FMA)
A competitive advantage of the first project to bring a service or product into a new and unexplored market or industry.
財政政策
財政政策 | 定義：描述當局如何調整國家的稅率，從而影響公共資金的徵收和使用方式。
Flappening
The name to describe the moment when Litecoin (LTC) surpassed Bitcoin Cash (BCH) in terms of market capitalization
Flashbots
探索 Flashbots，專注於改良以太坊 MEV 相關區塊鏈解決方案的研究開發機構。
Flippening
The name to describe the moment when/if Ethereum (ETH) surpasses Bitcoin (BTC) in terms of market capitalization
流量變數
探索流量變數，意即反映特定期間內某事物數量的衡量值。了解什麼是流量變數以及一些範例。
Forced Liquidation
When a trader's leveraged position is forcibly closed as a result of it not fulfilling the necessary margin requirements.
Forex (FX)
Forex stands for Foreign Exchange Markets. It's a global market for the trading of fiat currencies.
分叉
分叉是區塊鏈網路中的一種發散，透過在區塊鏈交易歷史中創建分裂而生。分叉有兩種類型 - 軟分叉和硬分叉。
Formal Verification
Using mathematically rigorous proofs to ensure certain properties of cryptographic algorithms and blockchain mechanisms
部分所有權
欺詐證明
詐騙證明是驗證人提交來挑戰交易有效性的加密證據。它廣泛用於區塊鏈可擴展性。
Fren
線上用語「Fren」是一種稱呼他人的友善方式。它的起源來自數位社群，並在加密貨幣社群中廣泛使用。
FTM
完整節點
Computer that fully implements the entirety of rules of an underlying blockchain network and validates transactions on a blockchain.
Fully Diluted Valuation (FDV)
Fully Diluted Valuation (FDV) is a metric that tells us what a crypto project’s market value could be if all its tokens were available for trading now.
基本分析 (FA)
基本分析 | 定義：根據資產的基本特徵和特質對其進行評估，以得出資產的內在價值。
資金費用
資金費用是在永續合約市場中，持有多頭 (買入) 或空頭 (賣出) 倉位的交易者之間支付的費用。
Fungibility
The property of an asset whose individual units are indistinguishable from each other in terms of value and functionality.
Futures Contract
A legal agreement made between a buyer and a seller to trade an asset at a predefined price and date in the future.
GameFi
GameFi 是 DeFi 的一部分，結合區塊鏈技術和遊戲，透過 NFT 和加密貨幣提供邊玩邊賺獎勵。
Ganache
Gas
燃料 | 定義：以太坊區塊鏈上使用的定價機制，用於計算智能合約操作的成本和交易手續費。
礦工費
Gas 上限
Maximum price a cryptocurrency user is willing to pay as a fee when sending a transaction, or performing a smart contract function.
Gas 計價
Gas Station Network
GBP
國內生產毛額平減指數
探索國內生產毛額 (GDP) 平減指數，它是衡量一國境內生產商品和服務的通貨膨脹之經濟工具。了解其在加密貨幣中的應用案例。
General Public License
License allowing users to copy and modify software, but requires the works to be distributed under the same license.
創世區塊
The first ever block recorded on its respective blockchain network, also referred to as Block 0 or Block 1.
Gitcoin
GitHub
A site/system/folder/repository where a team can share, collaborate, and save their open source or proprietary code.
GM (早安)
GM 代表「早安」，加密貨幣社群的用法反映出領域的包容性和協作性。
Goerli
Golden Cross
A bullish chart pattern where a shorter-term moving average crosses above a longer-term moving average.
黃金比例
揭開交易黃金比例的秘密！了解斐波那契回調 (Fibonacci retracement ) 水平與此數學奇蹟的關聯，且如何影響市場分析。
金髮女孩
探索金髮女孩原則在經濟學中的影響、對加密貨幣市場的影響以及如何影響投資者情緒。
Gossip Protocol
A particular method of asynchronous peer-to-peer communication between computer nodes of a distributed system.
治理
國內生產毛額 (GDP)
了解什麼是國內生產毛額 (GDP)、它的計算方式、它對金融和加密貨幣市場的影響，以及為什麼它對我們的經濟至關重要。
GSN
Gwei
Gwei | 定義：以太幣的小單位，它被廣泛用於衡量燃料價格。1,000,000,000 wei = 1 Giga wei (Gwei)
Hackathon
A blockchain hackathon is a competition where participants build sample applications atop a blockchain ecosystem.
Hacker
An individual that has an advanced understanding of computer systems and networks, including programmers and cybersecurity experts.
Haha Money Printer Go Brrrrr
Haha Money Printer Go Brrrrr is meme created in response to the Federal Reserve's 2020 plan to print money.
減半
減半是將比特幣 (BTC) 等 PoW 加密貨幣的區塊獎勵減少到一半的過程。下一波比特幣減半預計大約會在 2024 年發生。
Hard Cap
The maximum amount of funds a project intends to raise during their Initial Coin Offering (ICO) or alternative fundraising event.
硬分叉
硬著陸
以經濟學術語來說，硬著陸是指經濟從增長迅速轉變為增長緩慢或不景氣的情況。
硬體錢包
Harmony
雜湊
The output produced by a hash function after a piece of data is mapped. May also be referred to as hash value, hash code, or digest.
Hash Rate
The speed at which a computer or mining hardware is able to calculate new hashes. Usually measured in hashes per second.
Hashed TimeLock Contract (HTLC)
Refers to a special feature that is used to create smart contracts that are able to modify payment channels.
分層確定式錢包
羊群效應
羊群效應現象是指交易者傾向於複製群眾的行為，往往不自行研究。
十六進位
High-Frequency Trading (HFT)
A type of algorithmic trading that involves the execution of a large number of orders in fractions of a second.
HODL
A typo of 'Hold' originating from bitcointalk that has also been retrofitted to be an acronym for Hold on for Dear Life.
Honeypot
A mechanism used in computer security used to detect or counteract unauthorized access of information systems.
熱儲存
熱錢包
混合式區塊鏈
超級帳本
區塊鏈間通訊 (IBC)
Iceberg Order
Conditional order to buy or sell a large amount of assets in smaller quantities to conceal the total order quantity.
ICO
ID
不可篡改
The inability to change or be changed. One of the core features behind Bitcoin and blockchain technology.
指數基金
了解指數基金、其運作方式、潛在的優缺點，以及其對區塊鏈和加密貨幣市場的潛在影響。
Infura
Initial Coin Offering (ICO)
A fundraising method in which new projects will sell their cryptocurrency to investors.
首次 Dex 發行 (IDO)
首次 DEX 發行 (IDO) 是區塊鏈募資的一種方法。這是直接在去中心化交易所 (DEX) 上進行的公開代幣銷售。
Initial Exchange Offering (IEO)
The fundraising will be conducted on a well-known exchange’s fundraising platform, such as Binance Launchpad
Initial Public Offering (IPO)
Refers to the moment a private company starts offering its shares to the public for the first time.
銘文
附加到比特幣最小單位聰，且儲存在區塊鏈上的文字、圖片或代碼等資料片段。
內線交易
Integrated Circuit (IC)
A small chip, typically made of silicon, that holds a set of electronic parts such as transistors, resistors or capacitors.
利率
利率可以指借款成本或投資賺取的報酬，通常以本金的百分比表示。
內部交易
互操作性
A concept of allowing blockchains to be compatible with each other and build upon each other's features and use-cases.
星際檔案系統 (IPFS)
InterPlanetary File System
An open-source project building a protocol for distributed content storage and access.
欠條 (IOU)
IOU | 定義：「欠條 ( I owe you)」的首字母縮寫詞，指承認一方欠另一方債務的非正式文件。
IP 位址
IPFS
IPO
Isolated Margin
The margin balance allocated to a position. Traders can manage risk by restricting the amount allocated to each position.
Issuance
Generation of a new cryptocurrency which occurs in a variety of different ways, depending on parameters specified by the creators.
JSON 檔案
JSON-RPC
Keccak
Keccak | 定義：由 Guido Bertoni、Joan Daemen、Michaël Peeters 和 Gilles Van Assche 設計的多功能加密函數。
keystore 檔案
認識你的客戶
認識你的客戶 | 定義：金融業的標準程序，可讓公司識別其客戶並遵守認識你的客戶 (KYC) 和洗錢防制 (AML) 相關法律
認識你的交易
Kovan
KYC
KYT
Laspeyres Index
Explore the Laspeyres Index, a tool for measuring price changes over time. Understand its uses in traditional markets and applications in cryptocurrencies.
Latency
The time between submitting a transaction to a network and the first confirmation of acceptance by the network.
Lattice2
Launchpad
Law of Demand
The law of demand relates to the willingness of consumers to buy a specific amount of goods or services for a particular price.
第 1 層
第 2 層
A secondary framework or protocol that is built on top of an existing blockchain system to provide increased scalability.
Ledger
A physical book or a digital computer file where monetary and financial transactions are tracked and recorded.
Ledger Live
Ledger Live 應用程式
Leveraged Tokens
Leveraged tokens are a type of cryptocurrency derivative that allows traders to gain leveraged exposure to a particular cryptocurrency without having to manage the margin requirements.
函式庫
A collection of stable resources, which may include executable files, documentation, message templates, and written code.
Lido
輕客戶端
Lightning Network
A second layer operating on top of a blockchain, enabling increased transaction speed among participating nodes.
限價單
了解交易中的限價單以及它們如何幫助您控制交易價格、避免滑價並有效駕馭波動的市場。
Linea
Linux
A popular open-source operating system, created in 1991 by Linus Torvalds. It is used in a wide range of devices around the world.
流動性質押
流動性質押是一種熱門的流動性挖礦方法，用戶可以將其質押資產代幣化，以強化 DeFi 平台的流動性和靈活性。
流動性質押代幣 (LST)
探討加密貨幣中的流動性質押代幣 (LST)。了解如何解鎖質押資產的流動性和靈活性。探索 WBETH 和 DeFi 獲利機會。
清算
流動性
The ability to sell or buy any given asset without causing significant fluctuations in the market price for that asset.
流動性危機
流動性危機是個人、機構或市場面臨現金短缺，以致難以負擔立即金融義務。
流動性池
流動性提供商
流動性提供商 (Liquidity Provider, LP) 是在金融市場中提供買賣訂單的實體或個人，藉以提升市場流動性，並確保市場穩定且有效率。
流動資產比率
流動資產比率是一種財務指標，用於衡量公司短期的償債能力。
流動性質押
Listing
The addition of an asset to an exchange either as a request from the project team or as a decision made by the exchange.
主網
主網 | 定義：已完全開發並部署的區塊鏈協定，可推播、驗證和記錄交易。
Mainnet Swap
When a coin migrates from a third party platform such as Ethereum or other token to a native on-chain token on their mainnet.
Maker
When you place an order and it does not trade immediately, your order stays in the order book for someone else to fill/match with it.
Maker協議
惡意軟體
Any software program or code that is created to infiltrate and intentionally cause damage to computer systems and networks.
Margin Trading
Trading using borrowed funds  - note: this is a high risk strategy and should only be done by experienced investors.
市值
市值
市值 | 定義：特定代幣的總交易價值 - 以代幣產品供應量乘以當前價格計算得出。
Market Momentum
The ability of a certain market to maintain a continuous increase or decrease in price within a particular timeframe.
市價單
市價單 | 定義：當吃單方選擇加密貨幣最佳可用買價與賣價時，採用訂單簿中可用的價格和數量。
Masternode
Nodes on a network that often require a minimum amount of a given coin staked in order to access staking rewards.
媒合引擎
媒合引擎是一款專為處理交易訂單而設計的軟體，確保買方和賣方在金融市場正確付款。
MATIC
Maximum Supply
Refers to the maximum number of coins or tokens that will be ever created for a given cryptocurrency.
記憶體池
記憶池
A node’s mechanism for keeping track of unconfirmed transactions that the node has seen (but have not yet been added to a block).
Mercuryo
合併
Merged Mining
The act of mining two or more cryptocurrencies at the same time, without sacrificing overall mining performance
梅克爾樹
雜湊樹
雜湊樹 | 定義：一種資料處理方法，能夠組織和結構化大量資料，促進簡易流程。一種雜湊資料結構。
Consensys Mesh
詮釋資料
Data that includes information about other data, such as information about features of a specific transaction.
MetaMask
MetaMask Flask
MetaMask Institutional
MetaMask Learn
MetaMask Swaps
元宇宙
元宇宙的概念是一個持續存在的線上 3D 虛擬環境，許多人認為這將是未來數位體驗的關鍵要素。
最大可提取價值
多重要素驗證 (MFA)
微交易
探索區塊鏈脈絡下的微交易世界，並了解閃電網路如何持續徹底改變比特幣支付。
礦工
礦工小費
挖礦
挖礦 | 定義：對區塊鏈網路交易進行驗證，將交易作為條目新增到區塊鏈分類帳中。
Mining Farm
A collection of many miners, often in a warehouse or large data center devoted to mining cryptocurrencies
鑄造
鑄造是將新代幣加入加密貨幣生態系中，使其能在網路內交易或使用。鑄造與挖礦類似，但有些關鍵差異。
助記詞
MobiKwik
模塊化區塊鏈
貨幣政策
貨幣政策 | 定義：指當局為控制國家貨幣供應量和利率所制定和採用的政策。
貨幣市場
貨幣市場是個人和機構交易國庫券和定期存單等短期金融工具的地方。歡迎前往幣安學院了解更多。
監控標籤
在幣安平台用來分類加密貨幣專案的標籤，這些加密貨幣專案比起種子標籤專案更加成熟。
Moon
A colloquial expression used to describe a cryptocurrency or other asset that is experiencing a strong upward market trend.
MoonPay
移動平均線軌道
探索移動平均線軌道，由圍繞中央移動平均線設定的兩條帶組成的技術分析工具。了解他們如何運作以及他們提供什麼優勢。
移動平均線緞帶
探討移動平均線緞帶的意義，此為一種移動平均線組合，用於識別市場趨勢、市場動能和潛在市場反轉。
Mt. Gox
探索曾為最大比特幣交易所的 Mt. Gox 興衰。在幣安學院了解它如何崩盤、安全漏洞、法律後果等。
多簽錢包
多簽錢包
Multisignature
Wallet which requires another party to authorize a transaction before it is broadcasted to the network.
Nakamoto 共識
了解 Nakamoto 共識，它是由中本聰建立的重要協定，能夠建立安全且去中心化的區塊鏈網路。
巢狀區塊鏈
淨資產價值 (NAV)
NAV 等於企業資產減去其負債的價值。它可以幫助投資人了解共同基金或 ETF 的每股價格。
網路
網路壅塞
近距離無線通訊
NFT
NFT 聚合器
NFT 投放
NFT 底價
底價代表收藏系列中單件 NFT 的最低可能購入價格。
NFT Mystery Boxes
Non-fungible token (NFT) mystery boxes are a type of digital collectible that contain a random assortment of NFTs that are unknown the buyer until they open the box.
NGMI
NGMI 是「不會成功」的縮寫，用來傳達一種對於實現成功或克服挑戰的悲觀態度。
Ngrave
節點
A participant on a blockchain network that communicates with other participants to ensure the security and integrity of the system.
非同質化代幣
非同質化代幣 (NFT)
代表獨一無二的數位或現實世界資產且不能互換的一種加密代幣。
僅使用一次的數字
A single-use arbitrary string or number generated for verification purposes to prevent replaying past transactions.
OCO Order
An OCO (One Cancels the Other) order allows you to place two orders at the same time. It combines a limit order with a stop-limit order but only one of them can be executed.
鏈下
了解加密貨幣鏈下交易如何提高可擴展性和速度。探索如何將其使用於第 2 層解決方案來降低交易成本。
出金
離線簽署協調器 (OSO)
離線簽署協調器 (OSO) 是由 IBM 開發的技術，可強化加密貨幣和數位資產冷儲存時的安全性。
Offshore account
An account that is registered in a jurisdiction that is different to the jurisdiction of the holder's citizenship.
叔塊
鏈上
鏈上是指直接記錄在區塊鏈上的交易和活動，可確保資料透明、安全、不可篡改。
入金
ONE
opBNB
opBNB 扮演了第 2 層擴展解決方案的重要角色，策略性地減輕 BNB 智能鏈的交易處理負擔和資源使用量。
Open-Source Software (OSS)
Software released under a license that gives anyone the ability and right to use, update, and distribute it freely.
OpenSea
Opera
機會成本
探索機會成本在經濟和交易中的作用，以幫助您做出更好的決策。了解如何計算機會成本。
Optimism
Optimistic Rollup
預言機
A data source or feed from a third party used for determining outcomes for smart contracts.
ORC-20 代幣
ORC-20 代幣在比特幣區塊鏈上運行，採 JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) 檔案以 Ordinals 序號銘刻在 Satoshi 上，類似於 BRC-20 代幣。
訂單簿
訂單簿 | 定義：交易所或市場上特定資產的未完成買賣單電子列表。
Ordinals
Ordinals 是一種類 NFT 實體，可以直接在比特幣區塊鏈鑄造。
Orphan Block
A block whose parent block is unknown, formed in older versions of Bitcoin Core, where ancestry data wasn't required.
P2P
PALM
PancakeSwap
PancakeSwap 是一個使用 AMM 模型的去中心化交易所 (DEX)。它具有各種 DeFi 產品和服務並可在多個區塊鏈網路上使用。
Paper Wallet
A piece of paper on which the public and private keys of a cryptocurrency address are physically printed out.
並行化
並行化是一種處理交易的方法，將網路架構為能同時驗證多筆交易。
ParaSwap
同等
Passive Management
An investing strategy that doesn’t rely on active market exposure but rather tracks an existing economic index.
助記詞
密碼
密鑰管理員
PayPal
點對點
When two or more computers are connected and share workload or resources without relying on a centralized server.
掛鉤貨幣
掛鉤貨幣是一種與另一種貨幣、商品或一籃子貨幣的價值緊密相關的貨幣。
認許制帳本
非許可制區塊鏈
非許可制區塊鏈是一種開放網路，讓任何人都可以參與共識過程，而無須獲得批准、許可或授權。
網路釣魚
A malicious attack where a bad actor will attempt to obtain the credentials of a user in order to gain unauthorised access into their account.
公鑰基礎建設 (PKI)
以太坊等離子體
An Ethereum off-chain scaling solution which may allow Etherum to greatly increase the transactions per second capablities.
授權證明
Polkadot Crowdloan
A crowdsourcing system that allows participants to support specific projects by staking DOT.
Polygon
Ponzi Scheme
A scam in which new investors' funds are used to pay returns promised to previous investors. Do not invest in these.
PoS
PoW
預挖礦
了解區塊鏈和加密貨幣的預挖礦、其目的、潛在優缺點、批評以及對市場表現的影響。
Price Action
The price movements of a financial asset over time. Plotted on a chart, it can be used by traders to identify trade setups.
Prisoner's Dilemma
An example that shows why two individuals might not cooperate, even if it may appear to be in their best interest.
私鏈
私人貨幣
私鑰
In the context of cryptocurrency, a private key is a number that allows users to sign transactions and to generate receiving addresses.
Private Sale
An early stage investment round for strategic investors with a considerable amount of investible funds.
Progressive Web application (PWA)
An application that is created through the use of modern web technologies and follows basic web standards.
Proof of Attendance Protocol (POAP)
A protocol that creates digital badges or collectibles to celebrate and record the attendance of an event. POAPs are minted as ERC-721 tokens on the Ethereum blockchain.
儲備證明 (PoR)
儲備證明 (PoR) | 定義：儲備證明 (PoR) 是一種驗證方式，證明交易所確實保留資金以涵蓋用戶資產。
權益證明
A consensus mechanism that reward block validators according to the amount of coins they have at stake.
權益權威證明 (PoSA)
權益權威證明結合了權益證明和權威證明，透過其平等質押和平衡驗證系統來強化區塊鏈安全性
工作量證明
工作量證明是一種加密貨幣共識機制，礦工使用特殊設備解決加密難題，以驗證交易並創建新區塊。
Proposer-Builder Separation (PBS)
Proposer-builder separation (PBS) is an Ethereum concept aiming to improve scalability by dividing the responsibilities of block building into block proposers and block builders.
Proto-Dank 分片
在實施 Dank 分片之前，Proto-Dank 分片可作為臨時可擴展性解決方案，這標誌著以太坊 2.0 (Serenity) 的最後階段。
協議
Pseudorandom
The property of a definite function that can produce an outcome that passes statistical tests of randomness.
收款地址
公有鏈
公開金鑰
公鑰是金鑰對的其中一半，用於加密訊息或驗證數位簽章。在加密貨幣領域，它在本質上可作為您的錢包地址。
公鑰密碼學
拉高拋售
拉高拋售是一種用於加密貨幣的詐騙行為，數位資產的價格被人為哄抬和拋售，從而導致代幣價值急劇下跌。
QR碼
量化寬鬆 (QE)
了解量化寬鬆 (QE)，中央銀行用來提振經濟的工具。了解其對金融和加密貨幣市場的影響。
量化緊縮 (QT)
了解量化緊縮及其對金融和加密貨幣市場的影響。了解中央銀行政策如何影響資產價格和情緒。
Quantum Computing
Using particles that can be in superposition. These particles represent qubits and can take the value of 1, 0 or both.
Quorum
Race attack
When two transactions are created with the same funds at the same time, with the intention of spending those funds twice.
Ransomware
A type of malware which takes over your computer and threatens to destroy or reveal files unless a ransom is paid.
Rarible
現實世界資產 (RWA)
現實世界資產是指具有內在價值的有形實體資產—例如房地產、商品或藝術品—這些資產被代幣化，以便在區塊鏈上使用。
經濟衰退
瞭解經濟衰退及其如何影響加密貨幣市場：探索經濟衰退對於數位資產造成的複雜性和不確定性。
遞歸銘文
遞歸銘文是指將資訊嵌入自身，創造一個引用循環。了解它在比特幣和加密貨幣領域的運作方式。
Rekt
A slang term used to define someone or something that has been destroyed or experienced catastrophic failure and a synonym for liquidated
Relative Strength Index (RSI)
A technical indicator that measures market momentum & used to identify overbought and oversold conditions.
中繼器
遠端程序呼叫
Resistance
A term in Technical Analysis (TA). When a price that is increasing finds resistance. Usually compared with previous highs.
Return on Investment (ROI)
A measure used in order to assess the efficiency of an investment. The ratio between net profit and net cost.
報復性交易
了解報復性交易的概念、它的運作方式以及它有什麼危險。了解它如何影響交易者的財務和情緒。
Rinkeby
風險溢酬
金融領域的風險溢酬是投資者期望的報酬或對更高風險的需求，這對於明智的投資決策至關重要。歡迎前往幣安學院了解更多。
發展路線圖
A business planning technique which lays out the short and long term goals of a company within a flexible estimated timeline.
Rocket Pool
交易卷
Ropsten
Routing Attack
Attack on the Internet Service Provider level to affect uptime or participation in a web-enabled system, such as a blockchain.
RPC
Rug Pull 騙局
A rug pull in the crypto industry is when a development team suddenly abandons a project and sells or removes all its liquidity.
Safeheron
薩姆規則
薩姆規則 (Sahm Rule ) 透過監控失業率來偵測經濟衰退。若 3 個月的失業率平均值較去年最低值上升 0.5%，則可能會發生經濟衰退。
Samsung Pay
沙盒
三明治交易
三明治交易又稱三明治攻擊，是一種在加密貨幣市場中運用的交易策略或操縱技巧。
Sardine
Satoshi
The smallest unit of a bitcoin, as defined by the Bitcoin protocol. It equals one-hundred-millionth of a bitcoin or 0.00000001 BTC.
中本聰
Satoshi Nakamoto was the pseudonym of the creator or creators of the bitcoin protocol and whitepaper.
可擴展性
擴展
詐騙
Scrypt
SDK
搜尋引擎
助記詞
用戶資產安全基金 (SAFU)
SAFU | 定義：用戶資產安全基金 (SAFU) 是幣安於 2018 年建立的緊急保險基金。
美國證券交易委員會 (SEC)
美國證券交易委員會 (SEC) | 定義：負責監管證券市場的獨立政府機構。
Security Audit
A systematic analysis to evaluate how safe a system, smart contract, or blockchain is against attacks or technical failures.
證券型代幣
證券型代幣發行
證券型代幣發行 (STO)
解說證券型代幣發行 (STO)，一種透過發行證券型代幣籌集資金的方法。探索它們為投資者提供的部分優勢。
助記詞
A seed phrase or menmonic seed is a collection of words that can be used to access your cryptocurrency wallet.
種子標籤
一種用於分類加密貨幣的標籤，這些加密貨幣通常處於開發初始階段且可能尚未有可運作的產品或成熟的用戶群。
隔離見證 (SegWit)
隔離見證 (常縮寫為 SegWit) 是比特幣協定的一項更新，用於解決網路可擴展性與安全性問題。
自行監管
自動執行
Selfish Mining
The strategic withholding and releasing of blocks by a miner in order to gain a competitive advantage over the network.
Sell Wall
A very large limit sell order or a cumulation of sell orders at the same price level on an order book for an asset.
Sentiment
The overall attitude of a community in regards to a cryptocurrency or within investors towards a certain financial market.
Sepolia
Serenity
序列化
分片鏈
分片
分片 | 定義：分片是一種將區塊鏈 (或其他類型的資料庫) 拆分為較小的分區區塊鏈的方法，該區塊鏈用於管理特定資料區段。
Sharpe Ratio
A ratio created in 1966 that investors and economists use to assess the potential return of investment (ROI).
匿名交易
側鏈
側鏈
側鏈是與父區塊鏈連結的獨立區塊鏈，旨在強化可擴展性並促進網路之間的數位資產轉帳。
簡單移動平均線 (SMA)
探索簡單移動平均線 (SMA)，這是交易者用來識別市場趨勢和潛在買入或賣出訊號的基本技術分析工具。
罰沒
罰沒是一種懲罰惡意或疏忽行為的機制，適用於依賴質押並使用權益證明 (PoS) 共識機制的區塊鏈中。
刪砍條件
滑點
當交易結算價格與原本要求或預期不同，滑價現象通常發生在低流動性市場和使用市價單的時候。
時段
智能合約
智能合約是存在於特定區塊鏈網路上自行執行的合約。其條款直接寫在程式碼中。
智能合約錢包
智能合約錢包是利用可程式化智能合約引入先進功能和強化安全功能的加密貨幣錢包。
Snapshot
The ability to record the state of a blockchain ledger, storage device, or computer system at a specific point in time.
社交恢復錢包
社交恢復錢包是允許加密貨幣恢復的加密貨幣錢包。用戶可以運用可信賴的聯絡人，在遺失金鑰或忘記密碼時重新獲得存取權。
社交交易
社交交易是一種策略，可讓個人模仿專家投資者和市場專業人士的交易行為，並且通常是即時的。
SocialFi
SocialFi 是社群金融的縮寫，代表去中心化金融 (DeFi) 原則與社群媒體動態的融合。
軟分叉
軟著陸
軟著陸是指經濟在一段快速增長期後逐漸放緩，同時避免衰退的情況。
Solidity
Solidity 是於 2014 年推出的一種程式語言，專門用於在以太坊區塊鏈上編寫和執行智能合約。
Source Code
Computer code, which is responsible for defining how software will function based on a list of instructions and statements.
SPL
SPL 是指 Solana 程式庫 (SPL)。它是一組規則和協定，管理代幣在 Solana 網路的運行和互動方式。
SRC-20 代幣
SRC-20 是一種代幣標準，利用比特幣郵票在比特幣網路上發行同質化代幣來擴展比特幣區塊鏈的功能性。
穩定幣
一種專為維持穩定價值所設計的加密貨幣，其旨在避免出現重大價格變化。
停滯性通膨
停滯性通膨是包括經濟成長放緩、就業機會更加稀缺，以及通貨膨脹 (商品和服務價格上漲) 的一種經濟挑戰。
質押權益
質押
Staking Pool
A pool where stakeholders combine their staking power to increase their chance of successfully validating a new block.
狀態
State Channel
A two-way communication channel between two users or nodes on a network, or between a user and a service.
狀態通道
stETH
探索 stETH，以太坊質押獎勵的代幣化形式。了解它如何強化加密貨幣投資的可觸及性和流動性。
STO
存量變數
探索存量變數，即在特定時間點測量的經濟資源數量。了解加密貨幣中存量變數的一些範例。
Store of Value
A commodity, asset or currency that can be saved, retrieved and exchanged at a future date, without suffering depreciation.
金流
Supercomputer
A computer or virtual machine that operates at the highest level of currently possible computing power.
Supply Chain
A network of people and businesses involved in creating and distributing a particular product or serving a particular customer.
Support
A term in Technical Analysis (TA). When a price that is decreasing finds 'support'. Usually compared with lows.
換幣
女巫攻擊 (Sybil attacks)
了解女巫攻擊 ，這是一種利用虛假身分操縱網路，從而可能影響金融和加密貨幣市場的網路威脅。
szabo
Taker
The 'taker' is someone who decides to place an order that is instantly matched with an existing order on the order book.
Tank
A term adopted from the traditional financial markets and describes a strong negative financial performance of a particular asset
Teku
Telegram
測試網路
測試網是主網的副本，提供無風險且安全的環境，用於探索和測試區塊鏈功能。
Testnet Kovan
Testnet Rinkeby
Testnet Ropsten
Ticker
The trading 'symbol' or shortened name (typically in capital letters) that refer to a coin on a trading platform. For example: BNB
交易代號
交易代號是代表股票、債券、加密貨幣或其他交易資產的簡寫代碼。歡迎前往幣安學院了解更多。
代幣
Tokens (not to be confused with coins) are digital units issued on a blockchain. They can hold value or be redeemed for assets.
代幣生成事件 (TGE)
代幣生成事件 (TGE)：區塊鏈專案的群募方式。了解 TGE 及其優缺點，與 ICO 的區別。
代幣鎖倉
Token lockup or vesting period refers to the time span in which tokens or coins are not allowed to be transferred or traded.
代幣合併
代幣合併係指兩種或兩種以上的加密代幣合併為單一代幣。了解代幣合併及其對加密貨幣價格的潛在影響。
Token Sale
The issuance of tokens in exchange for another cryptocurrency. Also referred to as an Initial Coin Offering.
代幣標準
代幣標準
了解區塊鏈網路中的 ERC-20、ERC-721、BEP-20 和 TRC-20 代幣標準。了解標準在加密貨幣交易和去中心化應用程式的作用。
代幣化
代幣化是指將實體世界資產 (例如房地產、藝術品或金融商品) 轉換為區塊鏈數位代幣的過程。
代幣經濟
「代幣經濟學」一詞組合兩個單詞，「代幣」和「經濟學」。它使我們能夠查看代幣如何運作以及可能影響其價值的各種因素
Total Supply
Refers to the number of coins or tokens that currently exists and are either in circulation or locked somehow.
總鎖定價值 (TVL)
總鎖定價值 (TVL) 是加密貨幣產業中廣泛用於衡量去中心化金融 (DeFi) 協定鎖定資產總價值的指標。
TradFi
TradFi (traditional finance) is the established financial system most people interact with in their daily lives.
交易
交易區塊
交易手續費
交易ID
交易 ID | 定義：交易 ID (TXID) 是標記區塊鏈每筆交易的唯一字串。
交易池
Transactions Per Second (TPS)
The number of transactions that a blockchain network is capable of processing each second.
Transak
國庫券 (T-bills)
國庫券是可影響利率和市場情緒的低風險政府證券。在幣安學院學習什麼是國庫券及其運作方式。
Trezor
TrueUSD (TUSD)
TUSD 是一種與美元掛鉤的穩定幣。它與多個區塊鏈網路整合，是增長最快的穩定幣之一。
Truffle
去信任化
No single entity has authority over the system and consensus is achieved between participants who do not have to trust each other.
圖靈完備
A machine that, given enough time and memory along with the necessary instructions, can solve any computational problem.
鎖幣總值
交易 ID
通用第二因素
了解數字 4 之於 CZ 的意義
數字 4 代表 CZ 的新年新希望之一，即無視針對幣安的 FUD (恐懼、不確定性和懷疑)、假新聞與攻擊。
未加密金鑰
Uniswap
Unit of Account
One of the primary properties of money. Allowing measurement and comparison of the value of different things.
未花費交易輸出
Unspent Transaction Output (UTXO)
An output created in a transaction, which must be referenced in a future transaction to spend funds.
解質押
升級
URL
USD
User Interface (UI)
The interface where interactions between humans and machines occur. It establishes how a user can interact with a machine.
功能型代幣
透過區塊鏈網路發行的數位代幣，通常透過首次代幣發行 (ICO)、首次交易所發行 (IEO) 或代幣生成事件 (TGE)。
UTXO
區塊鏈驗證人
有效證明
Verification Code
Code sent to a second device to ensure the identity of someone logging in to an account. Used for Two-Factor Authentication
限量交易
VillageDAO
Virtual Machine
An emulated computer system, or a distributed system that is designed to replicate the features of a computer's architecture.
Vladimir Club
A term used to describe someone who has acquired 1% of 1% (0.01%) of the maximum supply of a cryptocurrency.
Volatility
How quickly and how much the price of an asset changes. Calculated in terms of standard deviations in the annual return of an asset
Volume
A measurement of the number of individual units of an asset that changed hands in a market during a given time.
WAGMI
WAGMI 是「我們都會成功」的縮寫，鼓勵一種樂觀的態度，尤其是在加密貨幣社群。
錢包
Used to send and receive cryptocurrencies. Different types include software wallets, hardware wallets, and paper wallets.
錢包地址
WalletConnect
洗量交易
洗量交易是一種不道德和欺騙性的做法，涉及同時買賣某種資產以製造假冒市場活動。
Weak Hands
A term referring to traders or investors who lack the confidence to hold their assets or to follow their trading plans.
Weak Subjectivity
Relates to the need for certain nodes to rely on other nodes when determining the current state of a PoS blockchain.
Web 1.0
The initial iteration of the web, when data was primarily read-only pages connected with hyperlinks. Also known as 'read-only' web.
Web 3.0
Web3
WebHID
webhook
WebSocket
wei
Wei | 定義：以太幣 (ETH，即以太坊網路上所使用貨幣) 的最小單位，常用於表示燃料價格。
加權移動平均線 (WMA)
探索加權移動平均線 (WMA)，意即可平滑處理價格資料，並對近期價格變化有更高敏感度的基本技術分析工具。
Whale
An individual or organization that holds a large amount of Bitcoins or other cryptocurrency, allowing them to impact the markets.
Whiskers
Lines extending from a colored bar in a candlestick chart that indicate the low-high range of a trading pair within a time frame.
Whitelist
A list of allowed or trusted individuals, computer programs, or cryptocurrency addresses in relation to a service or event.
白皮書
Wick
Line found on a candlestick chart used to indicate where the price of an asset is fluctuating in regards to its opening and closing price
勝率
勝率 | 定義：在金融市場中，勝率 (或獲勝比率) 是一種衡量交易者獲利可能性的指標。
Wrapped Ether (WETH)
ERC-20 token representing Ether at a 1:1 ratio. It allows users to trade ETH to ERC-20 tokens on decentralized platforms.
包裝
威考夫
威考夫方法是 Richard Wyckoff 於 1930 年代開發的交易和投資方法，對現代技術分析影響深遠。
Wyre
擴展私鑰 (XPRIV)
擴展公鑰 (XPUB)
配息代幣
流動性挖礦
收益挖礦是 DeFi 的一種高風險作法，投資者鎖定資產提供流動性、貸款或質押，以換取獎勵或利息。
零地址
零知識證明
零知識證明
零知識證明 | 定義：驗證交易是否有效時，不透露有關交易的任何資訊，從而保護隱私。
零知識匯總
zk 匯總
zk 匯總是第 2 層擴展解決方案，可在不影響安全性的情況下提高區塊鏈網路的交易流通量。
zk-SNARKs
zk-SNARKs | 定義：「簡明非交互零知識證明 (Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge)」- 一種零知識證明的方法。
zk-STARKs
zk-STARK 允許一方 (證明者) 與第三方溝通經過驗證的資料或執行計算時，無需向交易對手 (驗證者) 揭露資料或分析。
